Volume 42, Number 24 Pages 1821–1870 
December 15, 2017 
SALUS POPULI SUPREMA LEX ESTO “The welfare of the people shall be the supreme law.” 
John R. Ashcroft Secretary of State 
MISSOURI REGISTER 
 
The Missouri Register is an official publication of the state of Missouri, under the authority granted to the secretary of state by sections 536.015 and 536.033, RSMo 2016. Reproduction of rules is allowed; however, no reproduction shall bear the name Missouri Register or “official” without the express per- mission of the secretary of state. 
The Missouri Register is published semi-monthly by SECRETARY OF STATE 
John R. Ashcroft 
Administrative Rules Division James C. Kirkpatrick State Information Center 
600 W. Main Jefferson City, MO 65101 (573) 751-4015 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF CURTIS W. TREAT 
· MANAGING EDITOR 
AMANDA MCKAY 
· EDITOR 
VONNE KILBOURN 
· ASSOCIATE EDITOR 
MARTY SPANN 
· PUBLICATION SPECIALIST 
JACQUELINE D. WHITE 
· ADMINISTRATIVE AIDE 
ALISHA DUDENHOEFFER 
ISSN 0149-2942, USPS 320-630; periodical postage paid at Jefferson City, MO Subscription fee: $56.00 per year 
POSTMASTER: Send change of address notices and undelivered copies to: 
MISSOURI REGISTER Office of the Secretary of State Administrative Rules Division PO Box 1767 Jefferson City, MO 65102 
The Missouri Register and Code of State Regulations (CSR) are available on the Internet. The Register address is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/moreg/moreg and the CSR is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/csr/csr. These websites contain rulemakings and regu- lations as they appear in the paper copies of the Registers and CSR. The Administrative Rules Division may be contacted by email at rules@sos.mo.gov. 
The secretary of state’s office makes every effort to provide program accessibility to all citizens without regard to disability. If you desire this publication in alternate form because of a disability, please contact the Division of Administrative Rules, PO Box 1767, Jefferson City, MO 65102, (573) 751-4015. Hearing impaired citizens should contact the director through Missouri relay, (800) 735-2966. 
  

MISSOURI REGISTER 
December 15, 2017 
PROPOSED RULES 
Department of Transportation 
Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission . 
Department of Social Services 
Family Support Division . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
MO HealthNet Division . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Department of Insurance, Financial Institutions and Professional Registration 
Missouri Board for Architects, Professional Engineers, Professional Land Surveyors, and Professional Landscape Architects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
State Board of Nursing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Missouri Board of Occupational Therapy . . . . . . . . . Real Estate Appraisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
ORDERS OF RULEMAKING 
Department of Social Services 
MO HealthNet Division . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Department of Insurance, Financial Institutions and Professional Registration 
State Board of Pharmacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
IN ADDITIONS 
Office of Administration 
State Officials’ Salary Compensation Schedule . . . . . 
. . .1825 
. . .1835 . . .1835 
. . .1838 . . .1838 . . .1839 . . .1842 
. . .1847 . . .1848 
. . .1849 
Department of Insurance, Financial Institutions and Professional Registration 
Construction Claims Binding Arbitration Cap . . . . . . . . .1851 Sovereign Immunity Limits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1851 State Legal Expense Fund Cap . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1851 
DISSOLUTIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1852 SOURCE GUIDES 
RULE CHANGES SINCE UPDATE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1857 EMERGENCY RULES IN EFFECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1861 EXECUTIVE ORDERS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1863 
IN THIS ISSUE: 
Vol. 42 No. 24 Pages 1821–1870 
REGISTER INDEX 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1865 
 
Register Filing Deadlines 
August 1, 2017 August 15, 2017 
September 1, 2017 September 15, 2017 
October 2, 2017 October 16, 2017 
November 1, 2017 November 15, 2017 
December 1, 2017 December 15, 2017 
January 2, 2018 January 16, 2018 
February 1, 2018 February 15, 2018 
March 1, 2018 March 15, 2018 
April 2, 2018 April 16, 2018 
Register Publication Date 
September 1, 2017 September 15, 2017 
October 2, 2017 October 16, 2017 
November 1, 2017 November 15, 2017 
December 1, 2017 December 15, 2017 
January 2, 2018 January 16, 2018 
February 1, 2018 February 15, 2018 
March 1, 2018 March 15, 2018 
April 2, 2018 April 16, 2018 
May 1, 2018 May 15, 2018 
Code Publication Date 
September 30, 2017 September 30, 2017 
October 31, 2017 October 31, 2017 
November 30, 2017 November 30, 2017 
December 31, 2017 December 31, 2017 
January 29, 2018 January 29, 2018 
February 28, 2018 February 28, 2018 
March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 
April 30, 2018 April 30, 2018 
May 31, 2018 May 31, 2018 
Code Effective Date 
October 30, 2017 October 30, 2017 
November 30, 2017 November 30, 2017 
December 30, 2017 December 30, 2017 
January 30, 2018 January 30, 2018 
February 28, 2018 February 28, 2018 
March 30, 2018 March 30, 2018 
April 30, 2018 April 30, 2018 
May 30, 2018 May 30, 2018 
June 30, 2018 June 30, 2018 
Documents will be accepted for filing on all regular workdays from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. We encourage early filings to facilitate the timely publication of the Missouri Register. Orders of Rulemaking appearing in the Missouri Register will be published in the Code of State Regulations and become effective as listed in the chart above. Advance notice of large volume filings will facilitate their timely publication. We reserve the right to change the schedule due to special circumstances. Please check the latest publication to verify that no changes have been made in this schedule. To review the entire year’s schedule, please check out the website at www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/pubsched. 
 
HOW TO CITE RULES AND RSMO 
RULES 
The rules are codified in the Code of State Regulations in this system– 
Title Division Chapter Rule 
3 CSR 10- 4 .115 Department Code of Agency General area Specific area 
State Division regulated regulated Regulations 
and should be cited in this manner: 3 CSR 10-4.115. 
Each department of state government is assigned a title. Each agency or division in the department is assigned a division number. The agency then groups its rules into general subject matter areas called chapters and specific areas called rules. Within a rule, the first breakdown is called a section and is designated as (1). Subsection is (A) with further breakdown into paragraphs 1., subparagraphs A., parts (I), subparts (a), items I. and subitems a. 
The rule is properly cited by using the full citation, for example, 3 CSR 10-4.115 NOT Rule 10-4.115. Citations of RSMo are to the Missouri Revised Statutes as of the date indicated. 
Code and Register on the Internet 
The Code of State Regulations and Missouri Register are available on the Internet. The Code address is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/csr/csr The Register address is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/moreg/moreg These websites contain rulemakings and regulations as they appear in the Code and Registers. 
  
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
Proposed Rules 
MISSOURI REGISTER 

Under this heading will appear the text of proposed rules and changes. The notice of proposed rulemaking is required to contain an explanation of any new rule or any change in an existing rule and the reasons therefor. This is set out in the Purpose section with each rule. Also required is a citation to the legal authority to make rules. This appears fol- lowing the text of the rule, after the word “Authority.” Entirely new rules are printed without any special symbol- 
ogy under the heading of proposed rule. If an existing rule is to be amended or rescinded, it will have a heading of proposed amendment or proposed rescission. Rules which are proposed to be amended will have new matter printed in boldface type and matter to be deleted placed in brackets. An important function of the Missouri Register is to solicit 
and encourage public participation in the rulemaking process. The law provides that for every proposed rule, amendment, or rescission there must be a notice that anyone may comment on the proposed action. This comment may take different forms. If an agency is required by statute to hold a public hearing 
before making any new rules, then a Notice of Public Hearing will appear following the text of the rule. Hearing dates must be at least thirty (30) days after publication of the notice in the Missouri Register. If no hearing is planned or required, the agency must give a Notice to Submit Comments. This allows anyone to file statements in support of or in opposition to the proposed action with the agency within a specified time, no less than thirty (30) days after pub- lication of the notice in the Missouri Register. 
An agency may hold a public hearing on a rule even though not required by law to hold one. If an agency allows comments to be received following the hearing date, the close of comments date will be used as the beginning day in the ninety- (90-) day-count necessary for the filing of the order of rulemaking. 
If an agency decides to hold a public hearing after planning not to, it must withdraw the earlier notice and file a new notice of proposed rulemaking and schedule a hearing for a date not less than thirty (30) days from the date of publication of the new notice. 
Proposed Amendment Text Reminder: Boldface text indicates new matter. [Bracketed text indicates matter being deleted.] 
Title 7—DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Division 10—Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission Chapter 3—Utility and Private Line Location and Relocation 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
7 CSR 10-3.010 Location and Relocation of Utility Facilities on State Highways. The Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission is amending sections (1), (3), (4), (5), (8), and (9), deleting section (6), and renumbering as necessary. 
PURPOSE: This amendment defines when a permit to access com- mission right-of-way is required to locate or relocate a utility facility, removes language regarding pavement cutting, removes language referring to approved materials for underground facilities and replaces with new language for carrier and encasements, removes 
unnecessary, restrictive words, corrects the number of Department of Transportation districts from ten (10) to seven (7), clarifies the address of the commission to request permit applications, deletes requirements for permits to work on utility facilities for emergencies, updates material that is incorporated by reference in the rule and other changes, removes material requirements for underground utility facilities in the rule that will instead be set forth in the commission permit that is issued. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: The secretary of state has determined that the publication of the entire text of the material which is incorporated by reference as a portion of this rule would be unduly cumbersome or expensive. This material as incorporated by reference in this rule shall be maintained by the agency at its headquarters and shall be made available to the public for inspection and copying at no more than the actual cost of reproduction. This note applies only to the ref- erence material. The entire text of the rule is printed here. 
(1) Application. (B) Except as described in this rule, all work to be performed on 
right-of-way of the state highway system in connection with the loca- tion, relocation, or maintenance of utilities, and where the roadway, shoulders or right-of-way will be affected by the work, must be done only under a permit or agreement to be issued prior to the com- mencement of said work by authority of the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission and that specifies the nature of the work to be performed. Application for these permits may be made on forms provided for that purpose [and shall state specifically the nature of the work to be performed. A deposit may be required to insure completion in accordance with the permit issued]. Applications for permits may be obtained at any of the [ten (10)] seven (7) district highway offices of the commission, Missouri Department of Transportation’s website located at: http://modot.mo.gov/design/UtilityResources/Permits.htm, or by requesting the applications from the office of the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission at the Missouri Department of Transportation Building, PO Box 270, Jefferson City, Missouri 65102, or by calling (573) 751-2551. [Replacement of individual poles and attachments or other existing utility facilities where only spot excavation is required and which excavation is not between the shoulder lines of the highway may be considered as routine maintenance, and a permit will not be required, provided the company involved abides by all park- ing and access regulations contained elsewhere in this policy for the type of highway on which the maintenance work is to be performed. Where parking and access violations occur or if the right-of-way is left in an unsatisfactory condition, the offending utility owner may be required to secure a per- mit for future maintenance work on the right-of-way. The policies prescribed in this rule are intended to reflect general policies of the commission and specific application should be made and permit obtained for the contemplated work rather than to rely fully upon these rules.] 
(C) [In the event that utility lines or facilities are so dam- aged as to constitute an emergency situation directly affect- ing or endangering traffic on the highway or public health or safety, access is permitted to the damaged facility by leaving the through roadways at such points as may be necessary to effect emergency repairs, provided immediate notice is given to the State Highway Patrol and the commission’s district engineer.] When emergency operations work is necessary, the damaged facility may be accessed immediately and without a per- mit by leaving the through roadways at such points as may be nec- essary to effect emergency repairs, provided immediate notice is given to the Missouri State Highway Patrol and the commission’s district engineer or his/her designee for the district wherein the 
1825 

Page 1826 
Proposed Rules 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
work will be performed, and a permit for emergency operations is requested immediately upon discovery of the need for emer- gency operations. A permit for emergency operations work is to be obtained as soon as practical, but in no event later than two (2) working days after the emergency operations work has com- menced. For the purposes of this subsection (1)(C), emergency operations includes, but is not limited to, unplanned work in response to utility lines or facilities being so damaged as to con- stitute an emergency situation directly affecting or endangering traffic on the highway or public health or safety. 
(D) This [policy] rule does not apply to utility lines for services to facilities required for operating the highway on the state highway system. 
(3) Definitions and General Information. (C) Encasement. Encasement as used in this policy means the 
placing of an installation around and outside of an underground facil- ity consisting of a larger conduit which will permit the removal and replacement of the facility. An alternate to the conduit type encase- ment would be reinforced concrete poured around the facility. Acceptable materials are described in [sub]section (5)[(C)]. 
(E) Minimum cover for new underground utilities [shall be] is: forty-two inches (42") for all water lines (parallel and crossings); forty-two inches (42") for fiber optic cable (crossings, encased in rigid conduit); seventy-two inches (72") for fiber optic cable (cross- ings encased in polyethylene (PE) pipe); thirty inches (30") for direct burial and in-trench fiber optic cable (parallel); twenty-four inches (24") for all other direct burial cable (parallel); seventy-two inches (72") for uncased polyethylene (PE) gas pipe crossings under ditches and roadways but thirty inches (30") elsewhere and thirty inches (30") for all other (such as, but not limited to, gravity sewers, force sewers and electric) underground utilities (parallel and crossings). 
(H) Scenic enhancement areas. Scenic enhancement areas [shall] include areas acquired or so designated as scenic strips, overlooks, rest areas, [recreation areas] and all rights-of-way of highways adjacent thereto and the rights-of-way of highways which pass through public parks, recreation areas, wildlife or waterfowl refuges, and historic sites as described under Title 23 United States Code (U.S.C.), section 138, which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this rule, as published by the United States Superintendent of Documents, 732 N Capitol Street NW, Washington D.C. 20402-0001, website: http://bookstore.gpo.gov, on July 1, 2016. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions. 
(I) Utility. Privately, publicly or cooperatively owned line, facility, or system for producing, transmitting, or distributing communica- tions, cable television, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water, steam, waste, storm water not connected with high- way drainage or any other similar commodity, including any fire or police signal system or street lighting system which directly or indi- rectly serves the public and does not include privately-owned facili- ties devoted exclusively to private use. The term utility [shall] also means the utility company inclusive or any wholly owned or con- trolled subsidiary. The term utility includes those facilities used sole- ly by the utility which are a part of its operating plant. The term also includes those utility type facilities [which are] owned or leased by a government agency for its own use or otherwise dedicated solely to governmental use. 
(K) Vertical clearance for overhead crossings. The vertical clear- ance of new or existing overhead installations [shall] is not [be] less than the current minimum requirements of the National Electric Safety Code, but in no case less than eighteen feet (18'). The National Electric Safety Code is incorporated by reference and made a part of this rule as published by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers-Standards Association, 501 Hoes Lane, 3rd Floor, Piscataway, New Jersey 08855, website: http://stan- dards.ieee.org, on August 1, 2016. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions to these standards. 
(4) Location and Relocation of Utility Lines. (A) Interstate System or Other Freeways. 
1. General policy. A. All utility installations on highways of the interstate sys- 
tem or other freeways shall be installed, serviced, and maintained without entering or leaving the through-traffic roadways and ramps except at points approved by the department for that purpose and without parking any equipment or storing materials upon the medi- ans, through roadways and ramps, or shoulders of the roadways. 
B. New service connections to existing parallel facilities shall be permitted only where an outer roadway exists and then only where access is permitted by the commission. 
2. Roadway crossings of utilities. A. Overhead crossings are permitted for power transmission 
and distribution lines and for multiple circuit communication lines where an underground installation is not economically feasible. Supports for existing overhead crossing facilities may be located on the right-of-way near the right-of-way line. Supports for new over- head crossing facilities may be located on the right-of-way near the right-of-way line where an outer roadway exists and shall be located off the right-of-way where no outer roadway exists. Overhead service crossings are not permitted except as described in paragraph (4)(A)3. 
B. Underground utility crossings shall be continuously encased under the through roadways, medians, ramps, and shoulder areas with the casing extending to the toe of the fill slopes or to the ditch line[.], and where installed by open trench through unpaved areas, have detector tape placed approximately one foot (1') above the encasement. Encasement will be used under high type outer roadways. Manholes or vent pipes will be located at the right-of-way line or adjacent to the outer roadway. Additional encasement requirements include the following: 
(I) In curb sections, [the encasement shall] extend out- side the outer curb of the roadways a distance equal to the depth of the encasement at the curb line. [Encasement] 
(II) [f]For fiber optic cable, [shall] extend from within six feet (6') of one right-of-way line to within six feet (6') of the other right-of-way line. [A detector tape shall be placed approxi- mately one foot (1’) above the encasement where installed by open trench through unpaved areas. Manholes or vent pipes shall be located at the right-of-way line or adjacent to the outer roadway. Encasement shall be required under high type outer roadways.] Exceptions may be made for encasement as follows: non-fiber communication or electric cables installed in ducts; welded steel pipelines carrying gaseous or liquid petroleum products provided they are cathodically protected against corrosion, triple coated in accordance with accepted pipeline construction stan- dards, and meet the applicable material requirements; natural gas distribution pipe (nominal six inches (6") diameter maximum) of polyethylene (PE) plastic, traceable, installed by a horizontal bore method at a minimum depth of seventy-two inches (72") under ditch- es and roadways, constructed in accordance with and meeting applic- able material requirements; gas service connections of steel or cop- per, protected and constructed in accordance with and meeting applicable material requirements; and water service connections and crossings of copper two inches (2") inside diameter or less and meet- ing applicable material requirements. 
3. Service crossings may be permitted in isolated cases for res- idential or commercial establishments when the denial of these cross- ings would require construction of more than twelve hundred feet (1,200') of utility line to provide the service. Main or distribution line crossings shall be required to serve a general area other than iso- lated cases. 
4. Parallel installations on the right-of-way [shall] may be per- mitted only where an outer roadway exists, provided that poles are within two feet (2') of the normal right-of-way line and underground facilities are within six feet (6') of the normal right-of-way line, and provided that the facility can be installed and maintained between the outer roadway and the right-of-way line, except that— 
A. Existing overhead or underground facilities that parallel an 
 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1827 

existing roadway which will be incorporated into the completed high- way as an outer roadway may remain in place if all maintenance and service can be performed from an outer roadway and [their] the existing location does not interfere with construction, maintenance, or operation of the completed highway; [and] 
B. Existing parallel facilities along an existing road which will be incorporated into the completed highway, except as permitted in subparagraph (4)(A)4.A., shall be relocated to the normal right- of-way line—poles to be within five feet (5') and underground instal- lations within six feet (6') thereof[.]; 
C. Existing telephone conduit systems with multiple ducts may be filled with any type of communication cable until full[.]; and D. Underground facilities are expected to be buried within six feet (6') of sight distance right-of-way lines at roadway intersec- tions unless granted a variance [to this policy]. Overhead facilities may be allowed to span intersecting roadways with sight distance tri- angles (SDTs) provided the poles, or supports, are located outside the 
SDT. 5. [Careful consideration shall be given to the location of 
guys, anchors, braces and other supports. Generally, good design procedure will provide that these appurtenances] Guys, anchors, braces, and other utility supports will be located at right-of-way jogs, along intersecting road right-of-way or at other similar acceptable locations, so that encroachment is held to an absolute minimum. 
6. Existing gravity trunk sanitary sewers [shall] may be consid- ered individually and removed or left in place, contingent upon age, condition, feasibility of moving, and whether service and mainte- nance can be performed without entering or leaving the through roadways and ramps except at points provided for that purpose or without parking any equipment or storing materials upon the median, through roadways, ramps, or shoulders. Encasement for existing trunk sanitary sewer crossings may be required for questionable con- dition, protection during construction or heavy fills. Manholes are to be relocated to the right-of-way lines or adjacent to an outer roadway. 
7. Encasement is not [required] necessary for new trunk sani- tary sewer crossings of vitrified clay, reinforced concrete or cast iron except when installation procedures would produce voids in the roadbed, heavy fills, or installations under pressure. Manholes are to be located off the right-of-way where possible or adjacent to an outer roadway. 
8. Interchanges and separations. A. No facilities will be permitted within the limits of [inter- 
changes of cloverleaf or directional design] an interchange separation where planned or existing. 
B. Utility installations within the limits of [a diamond type] an interchange or separation will be permitted only along the minor road, provided that all construction, service, and maintenance can be performed from the minor road. Manholes and poles shall be located beyond the ramp termini. 
9. Structures. A. No utility facilities will be permitted in or on a structure 
carrying an interstate road or other freeway. B. No utility facilities will be permitted in or on a structure 
carrying a minor road over an interstate road or other freeway except wires and then only when no other practical means exist for crossing. All such crossings shall be by agreement [and a charge will be made for the increased maintenance costs involved]. 
(B) High Type Roads (Limited but not Fully Controlled Access Right-of-Way). 
1. General policy. All utility facilities shall be installed, ser- viced, and maintained without entering or leaving the highway except at approved access points, and without parking equipment and mate- rials on the median, pavement, ramps, or shoulders, and without cut- ting or damaging the roadway surface or paved shoulders. New ser- vice connections to parallel facilities and service crossings shall be permitted only at access points granted by the commission. 
2. Roadway crossings of utilities. 
A. Overhead mainline crossings are permitted provided the sup- ports are located as near to the right-of-way line as possible. New over- head service crossings may be permitted in isolated cases for residential or commercial establishments where the denial of such crossings would require the construction of more than twelve hundred feet (1,200') of utility line to provide the same service. Supports for service crossings shall be located as near to the right-of-way line as possible. 
B. Underground utility crossings shall be continuously encased under the through roadways, median, ramps, and shoulder areas with the casing extending to the toe of the fill slopes or to the ditch line[.], and where installed by open trench through unpaved areas, have detector tape placed approximately one foot (1') above the encasement. Encasement will be used under high type outer roadways. Manholes or vent pipes will be located at the right-of-way line or adjacent to the outer roadway. Additional encasement requirements include the following: 
(I) In curb sections, [the encasement shall] extend out- side the outer curb of the roadways a distance equal to the depth of the encasement at the curb line. [Encasement] 
(II) [f]For fiber optic cable, [shall] extend from within six feet (6') of one right-of-way line to within six feet (6') of the other right-of-way line. [A detector tape shall be placed approxi- mately one foot (1’) above the encasement where installed by open trench through unpaved areas. Manholes or vent pipes shall be located at the right-of-way line or adjacent to an outer roadway. Encasement shall be required under high type outer roadways.] Exceptions may be made for encasement as follows: non-fiber communications and electric cables installed in ducts; welded steel pipelines carrying gaseous or liquid petroleum products, provided they are cathodically protected against corrosion, triple coated in accordance with accepted pipeline construction stan- dards, and meet the applicable material requirements; natural gas distribution pipe (nominal six inches (6") diameter maximum) of polyethylene (PE) plastic, traceable, installed by a horizontal bore method at a minimum depth of seventy-two inches (72") under ditch- es and roadways, constructed in accordance with and meeting applic- able material requirements; gas service connections of steel or cop- per, protected and constructed in accordance with and meeting applicable materials requirements; and water service connections and crossings of copper two inches (2") inside diameter or less and meet- ing applicable material requirements. 
3. Parallel facilities. Parallel installations on the right-of-way will be permitted provided that poles are within two feet (2') of the normal right-of-way line and underground facilities are within six feet (6') of the normal right-of-way line except— 
A. Existing poles being relocated shall be placed within five feet (5') of the normal right-of-way line; 
B. Existing overhead facilities that parallel an existing road- way which will be incorporated into the completed roadway may remain in place if all maintenance and service can be performed in accordance with provisions of paragraph (4)(B)1. and their existing location does not interfere with construction, maintenance, or oper- ation of the completed highway; 
C. Existing underground facilities (other than sanitary sew- ers) that parallel an existing roadway, which will be incorporated into the completed roadway, may be left in place where it is impractical to relocate the facility provided that maintenance and service be per- formed without cutting or damaging the pavement or interfering with the construction, maintenance, and operation of the highway; 
D. Multiple facilities at intersections, existing steel pipe transmission and distribution facilities for gaseous petroleum prod- ucts that parallel an existing roadway, which will be incorporated into the completed roadway, may be left in place subject to an agree- ment by the utility company with the commission that maintenance or service, and facility expansion will be performed without cutting or damaging the pavement or interfering with the construction, main- tenance, or operation of the highway and provided that the facility is cathodically protected against corrosion and meets the applicable material requirements; 

Page 1828 
Proposed Rules 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
E. [Careful consideration shall be given to the location of guys, anchors, braces and other supports. Generally, good design procedure will provide that these appurtenances] Guys, anchors, braces, and other utility supports will be located at right-of-way jogs, along intersecting road right-of-way, or at other similar acceptable locations, so that encroachment is held to an absolute minimum; 
F. Existing telephone conduit systems with multiple ducts may be filled with any type of communications cable until full; and G. Underground facilities are expected to be buried within 
six feet (6') of sight distance right-of-way lines at roadway intersec- tions unless granted a variance to this policy. Overhead facilities may be allowed to span intersecting roadways with SDTs provided the poles, or supports, are located outside the SDT. 
4. Existing gravity sanitary sewer mains will be considered indi- vidually and removed or left in place contingent upon age, condition, feasibility, or moving and whether service and maintenance can be performed without damaging the roadway surfacing. If an existing parallel gravity main is left in place within the limits of the paved surface, paved shoulder lines or curb lines, stub mains as required shall be laid between the sewer main and curb or shoulder lines for future service connections in each block. Manholes shall be relocat- ed outside the traveled roadway. Encasement for existing gravity trunk sanitary sewer crossings may be required for questionable con- dition, protection during construction, heavy fills, or installations under pressure. 
5. Encasement is not [required] necessary for new trunk sani- tary sewer crossings of vitrified clay, reinforced concrete, or cast iron pipe except when installation procedures would produce voids in the roadbed, heavy fills, or installations under pressure. Manholes are to be located as near the right-of-way line as practical. 
6. Interchanges and separations. A. No facilities will be permitted within the limit of [inter- 
changes of cloverleaf or directional design] an interchange separation where planned or existing. 
B. Utility installations within the limits of [a diamond type] an interchange or separation will be permitted only along the minor road provided that all construction, service, and maintenance can be performed from the minor road. Manholes and poles shall be relo- cated beyond the ramp termini. 
7. Structures. A. No utility facilities will be permitted in or on a structure 
carrying a limited access high type road. B. No utility facilities will be permitted except by agreement 
with the commission that includes any fees for increased mainte- nance costs involved in or on a structure carrying a minor road over a high type road except wires and then only where no other practical means exist for crossing. [All such crossings shall be by agree- ment and a charge will be made for the increased mainte- nance costs involved.] 
(C) High Type Roads (Without Access Control). 1. General policy. 
A. All new facilities shall be installed and maintained without cutting or damaging the roadway surface or paved shoulders except that in the event that underlying rock formations or other obstruc- tions are encountered that prevent boring or pushing operations, spe- cial permission may be granted for pavement cuts when the need is established. 
B. Pavement cuts may be made by permit only. Permits will be issued only when it is impractical to otherwise service and main- tain the facility. 
2. Roadway crossings of utilities. A. Overhead main line and service crossings are permitted 
provided the supports are located near the right-of-way lines. B. Underground facilities generally shall be continuously encased under the through roadways, median, ramps, and shoulder areas with the casing extending to the toe of the fill slopes or to the ditch line[.], and where installed by open trench through unpaved 
areas, have detector tape placed approximately one foot (1') above the encasement. Encasement will be used under high type outer roadways. Manholes or vent pipes will be located at the right-of-way line or adjacent to the outer roadway. Additional encasement requirements include the following: 
(I) In curb sections, [the encasement shall] extend out- side the outer curb of the roadway(s) a distance equal to the depth of the encasement at the curb line. [Encasement] 
(II) [f]For fiber optic cable, [shall] extend from within six feet (6') of one right-of-way line to within six feet (6') of the other right-of-way line. [A detector tape shall be placed approxi- mately one foot (1’) above the encasement where installed by open trench through unpaved areas. Manholes or vent pipes shall be located at the right-of-way line or adjacent to an outer road. Encasement shall also be required under high type outer roadways.] Exceptions for encasement may be made as follows: non-fiber communication and electric cables installed in ducts; welded steel pipelines carrying gaseous or liquid petroleum products, provided they are cathodically protected against corrosion, triple coated in accordance with accepted pipeline construction stan- dards, and meet the applicable material requirements; natural gas distribution pipe (nominal six inches (6") diameter maximum) of polyethylene (PE) plastic, traceable, installed by a horizontal bore method at a minimum depth of seventy-two inches (72") under ditch- es and roadways, constructed in accordance with and meeting applic- able material requirements; gas service connections of steel or cop- per, constructed and protected in accordance with and meeting the applicable material requirements; and water service connections and crossings of copper two inches (2") inside diameter or less and meet- ing the applicable material requirements. 
3. Parallel installations on the right-of-way will be permitted provided that poles are within two feet (2') of the normal right-of- way line and underground facilities are within six feet (6') of the nor- mal right-of-way line except— 
A. Existing poles, being relocated, shall be within five feet (5') of the normal right-of-way line; 
B. Existing overhead facilities that parallel an existing road- way, which will be incorporated into the completed roadway, may remain in place if their existing location does not interfere with con- struction, maintenance, or operation of the completed highway; 
C. Existing underground facilities (other than sanitary sew- ers) that parallel an existing roadway, which will be incorporated into the completed roadway, may be left in place where it is impractical to relocate the facility provided that maintenance and service can be performed without cutting or damaging the pavement or interfering with the construction, maintenance, and operation of the highway; 
D. Multiple facilities at intersections, existing steel pipe transmission, and distribution facilities for gaseous petroleum prod- ucts that parallel an existing roadway, which will be incorporated into the completed roadway, may be left in place subject to an agree- ment by the utility company that maintenance, service, and facility expansion will be performed without cutting or damaging the pave- ment or interfering with the construction, maintenance, or operation of the highway and provided that the facility is cathodically protected against corrosion and meets the applicable material requirements; 
E. [Careful consideration shall be given to the location of guys, anchors, braces and other supports. Generally, good design procedure will provide that these appurtenances] Guys, anchors, braces, and other utility supports will be located at right-of-way jogs, along intersecting road right-of-way or at other similar acceptable locations, so that encroachment is held to an absolute minimum; 
F. Existing telephone conduit systems with multiple ducts may be filled with any type of communication cable until full; and 
G. Underground facilities are expected to be buried within six feet (6') of sight distance right-of-way lines at roadway intersec- tions unless granted a variance to this policy. Overhead facilities may be allowed to span intersecting roadways with SDTs provided the poles, or supports, are located outside the SDT. 
 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1829 

4. Existing sanitary sewer mains shall be considered individual- ly and removed or left in place contingent upon age, condition, fea- sibility of moving, and whether service and maintenance can be per- formed without damaging the roadway surfacing. If an existing par- allel main is left in place within the limits of the paved surface, paved shoulder or curb lines, stub mains as required shall be laid between the sewer main and curb or shoulder lines for future service connec- tions in each block. Manholes, where necessary, shall be relocated outside the traveled roadway wherever practical. Encasement for existing trunk sanitary sewer crossings may be required for question- able condition, protection during construction, heavy fills, or instal- lations under pressure. 
5. Encasement is not [required] necessary for new trunk sani- tary sewer crossings of vitrified clay, reinforced concrete, or cast iron except when installation procedures would produce voids in the roadbed, heavy fills, or installations under pressure. Manholes are to be located as near the right-of-way line as practical. 
6. Structures. A. No utility facilities will be permitted in or on a grade sep- 
aration structure except wires (communication, electric power, fiber, or metal) and then only where no other practical means exist for crossings. 
B. No utility facilities shall be placed on any structure except by agreement [and a charge will be made for the increased maintenance cost involved]. 
(D) Low Type Roads (Without Access Control). 1. Roadway. 
A. Existing parallel surface installations interfering with con- struction, maintenance, or operation shall be relocated to within five feet (5') of the normal right-of-way line. Poles for new parallel sur- face installations shall be located within two feet (2') of the normal right-of-way line. Careful consideration shall be given to the location of guys, anchors, braces, and other supports. Generally, good design procedure will provide that these appurtenances be located at right- of-way jogs, along intersecting road right-of-way, or at other similar acceptable locations, so that encroachment is held to an absolute minimum. 
B. Existing parallel underground installations interfering with construction, maintenance, or operation shall be relocated to as near the right-of-way line as practical. New parallel underground installa- tions shall be located within six feet (6') of the normal right-of-way line. Existing telephone conduit systems with multiple ducts may be filled with any type of communication cable until full. 
C. Existing overhead crossings that interfere with construc- tion, maintenance, or operation shall be relocated with their supports as near the right-of-way line as is practical. New overhead crossing installations shall be located with their supports as near the right-of- way line as is practical. 
D. Installation of underground utility crossings may be made by [trenching half the roadway at a time] utilizing pavement cuts issued by permit. Permits will only be issued for pavement cuts when servicing and maintaining the facility by any other methods is impractical. Encasement with detector tape placed approximately one foot (1') above it, as provided in [sub]section (5)[(C)], [shall be] is required for fiber optic cable that extends from within six feet (6') of one right-of-way line to within six feet (6') of the other right-of-way line, [except as allowed in sub- paragraph (5)(C)1.C.,] pressure lines except welded steel pipelines carrying gaseous or liquid petroleum products provided they are cathodically protected against corrosion and natural gas distribution polyethylene (PE) plastic pipe of nominal six inches (6") diameter maximum bored a minimum of seventy-two inches (72") below the ditches meeting the applicable material requirements, sewers, and drains when crossing under the roadway using polyethylene, polyvinyl chloride (PVT), thermoplastic, asbestos cement, or acry- lonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) pipe material. [The encasement for fiber optic cable shall extend from within six feet (6’) of one right-of-way line to within six feet (6’) of the other right- 
of-way line. A detector tape shall be placed approximately one foot (1’) above the encasement.] 
E. Underground facilities are expected to be buried within six feet (6') of sight distance right-of-way lines at roadway intersections unless granted a variance to this policy. Overhead facilities may be allowed to span intersecting roadway with SDTs provided the poles, or supports, are located outside the SDT. 
2. Structures. [A.] No utility facilities will be permitted except by agree- 
ment with the commission that includes any fees for increased maintenance costs involved in or on any structure or in or on a grade separation except wires (communication, electric power, fiber, or metal) and then only where no other practical means exist for crossings. 
[B. No utility facilities shall be placed on any structure except by agreement and a charge will be made for the increased maintenance costs involved.] 
(E) Scenic Enhancement Areas. 1. Above Ground Utility. All existing above ground utility 
facilities within the limits of a scenic enhancement area [requiring adjustment because of] impacted by construction or reconstruc- tion shall be [placed] located underground or relocated beyond the limits of the scenic enhancement area unless such location or relo- cation is otherwise not authorized under this rule. No new above ground facilities will be permitted. [New underground facilities will be permitted provided they do not extensively alter or impair the appearance of the area.] 
2. Underground Utility. [The requirements of this section will not permit the installation of utilities if prohibited by other sections of this policy] New underground facilities will be permitted provided they do not extensively alter or impair the appearance of the area. 
(5) Approved Materials for Underground Utility Facilities ([Other Than Cable] Including Carrier and Encasement). Utility compa- nies are allowed to use the types of material as a carrier and encasement for its facilities as expressly provided for in the respective permit issued by the department for any utility loca- tion, relocation, and maintenance work where the use of the material is contemplated. 
[(A) Water and Sewer Lines. 1. Copper meeting the requirements of ASTM 
Specification B 88-99, Type K. 2. Cast iron meeting Specification ANSI 21.6-1975 
(AWWA C106-75) or ANSI 21.8-1975 (AWWA C108-75). Joints shall be mechanical or push on meeting Specification ANSI A 21.11-2000 (AWWA C111-00). 
3. Ductile iron meeting Specification ANSI 21.51-1996 (AWWA C151-96). Joints shall be mechanical or push on meeting Specification ANSI A 21.11-2000 (AWWA C111- 00). 
4. Prestressed concrete cylinder pipe meeting ANSI/AWWA C301-99 for sizes sixteen inches (16”) in diameter or larger. 
5. PVT pipe for water transmission shall be of Type PVT 1120 material and shall meet the requirements of ASTM D- 2241-00 or the latest revision thereof. For sizes one inch (1”) and larger, dimensions shall not be less than specified for SDR 26 pipe. For three-fourths inch (3/4”) size, dimen- sions shall not be less than specified for SDR 21 pipe. Pipe, fittings and couplings may have integral bell and ring-type joint or solvent-weld type joint. The owner shall furnish to the district engineer a certification by the manufacturer that the pipe supplied will conform to the specified requirements. This certification shall include substantiating test results rep- resentative of the pipe to be furnished. 
6. Asbestos cement pipe shall meet the requirements of ANSI/AWWA C400-93 for Class 150 or Class 200 pipe, or 

Page 1830 
Proposed Rules 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
the latest revision thereof, or ASTM C296-00, Type II, for Class 150 or Class 200 pipe or the latest revision thereof. Uncombined calcium hydroxide shall not exceed 1.0 percent. Couplings shall consist of an asbestos cement sleeve of the same composition as the pipe and two (2) rubber rings suit- able in size and design for the pipe with which it is used. The rubber rings shall conform to the requirements of ASTM D-1869-95 (Reapproved 2000) or the latest revision thereof. The owner shall furnish to the district engineer a certifica- tion by the manufacturer that pipe and rubber rings supplied will conform to the specified requirements. This certification shall include substantiating test results, including crushing strength, representative of the pipe to be furnished. 
7. Polyethylene (PE) plastic tubing for water transmis- sion shall be PE 3406, SDR 9 with a minimum working pres- sure of one hundred sixty pounds per square inch (160 psi) and meeting the requirements of ASTM D 2737-99 or the latest revision thereof. Polyethylene plastic pipe for water transmission shall be PE 3406, SDR 7 with a minimum working pressure of one hundred sixty pounds per square inch (160 psi) and meeting the requirements of ASTM D 2239-99 or the latest revision thereof. The owner shall fur- nish the district engineer a certification by the manufacturer that the pipe will conform to the specified requirements. This certification shall include substantiating test results repre- sentative of the pipe to be furnished. 
8. Polybutylene plastic tubing for water transmission shall be PB 2110, SDR 13.5, PR 160 psi; and shall meet the requirements of ASTM D 2666-96a or the latest revision thereof. Polybutylene plastic pipe shall be PB 2110, SDR 9, PR 250 psi; PB 2110, SDR 11, PR 200 psi; or PB 2110, SDR 13.5, PR 160 psi; and shall meet the requirements of ASTM D 3000-95a of PB 2110, SDR 7, PR 250 psi; PB 2110, SDR 9, PR 200 psi; or PB 2110, SDR 11.5, PR 160 psi; and shall meet the requirements of ASTM D 2662-96a or the latest revision thereof. The owner shall furnish the district engineer a certification by the manufacturer that the pipe will con- form to the specified requirements. This certification shall include substantiating tests results representative of the pipe to be furnished. 
9. ABS composite sewer piping for gravity sewer instal- lations shall meet the requirements of AASHTO M 264-92 (2000) (ASTM D 2680-95a) or the latest revision thereof. The owner shall furnish to the district engineer a certifica- tion by the manufacturer that the pipe supplied will conform to the specified requirements. This certification shall include substantiating test results representative of the pipe to be furnished. 
10. PVT pipe and fittings for gravity water and sewer transmission shall meet the requirements of ASTM D 3034- 00 SDR 35, ASTM F 789-95a, ASTM F 679-00 or ASTM D 2680-95a or the latest revision thereof. The owner shall fur- nish to the district engineer a certification by the manufac- turer that the pipe and fittings will conform to the specified requirements. This certification shall include substantiating test results representative of the pipe and fittings to be fur- nished. 
(B) Gas Lines. 1. Copper for gas shall meet with requirements of 
ASTM Specification B88-99 Type K or ASME B31.8-1999 or latest revision thereof. 
2. Thermoplastic pipe for gas transmission shall con- form to all of the requirements of the USA Standard Code for Pressure Piping, Gas Transmission and Distribution Piping Systems, ASME B31.8-1999. Thermoplastic pipe shall be polyvinyl chloride (PVT) Type II, Grade 1 (PVT 2110) or poly- ethylene Type II, Grade 3, (PE 2306), and shall conform to the requirements of ASTM D 2513-00. Dimensions shall not 
be less than that specified in ASTM D 2513-00. The owner shall furnish to the district engineer a certification by the manufacturer that the pipe supplied will conform to the specified requirements. This certification shall include sub- stantiating test results representative of the pipe to be fur- nished. 
3. For bored installations polyethylene (PE) pipe grade PE 2406 or better may be used without encasement for gas distribution six inches (6”) or less in diameter. This pipe and its components shall conform to requirements outlined in currently approved ASTM D 2512-95 specification Thermoplastic Gas Pressure Pipe, Tubing and Fittings, ASTM D 2683-98 specification Socket Type Polyethylene (PE) Fittings for Outside Diameter-Controlled Polyethylene Pipe and ASTM D 3261-97 specification Butt Heat Fusion Polyethylene (PE) Plastic Fittings for Polyethylene (PE) Plastic Pipe and Tubing. All pipe and components shall also conform to the materials qualification found in Department of Transportation Gas Division 49 CFR 192.59 and in 4 CSR 240-40.030(2)(D). 
4. Welded steel pipe lines shall meet the requirements of ASME B31.1-2001 and ASME B31.8-1999 or ASME B31.4-1998 or latest revision thereof. 
(C) Encasement. 1. Conduits permitted for encasement shall be new 
material or equivalent and shall conform to the following: A. The requirements of the latest revision of the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission Standard Specifications for—reinforced concrete culvert pipe; vitrified clay culvert pipe; cast iron pipe or ductile iron of the same class as used for carrier pipe; corrugated metal culvert pipe (corrugated metal culvert pipe is permitted for encasement only on roadways where current Missouri Department of Transportation design practices would permit its use as crossroad drainage structures); or corrugated metal sectional plate culvert pipe. (Corrugated metal sectional plate culvert pipe shall not be used unless it is impractical to use other approved types of encasement for new utility installations. When used, the voids around the outside of the corrugated 
pipe shall be grouted with an approved material); and B. Other encasement material. Smooth wall, welded steel pipe with a minimum wall thickness will be permitted 
as follows: 
Minimum Casing Wall 
Diameter Thickness 
(inches) (inches) 6,8,10,12,14&16 .188 

18, 20 & 22 24 & 26 28, 30, 32 & 34 36, 38, 40 & 48 less than 6 
.250 .281 .312 .344 Standard wall pipe or .188 wall as preferred 
C. Fiber optic cable may be encased in polyethylene (PE) conduit when it is placed at a minimum depth of seven- ty-two (72”) below natural ground and is “traceable.” 
2. Encasement of facilities with reinforced concrete shall be with a minimum of six inches (6”) of Class B rein- forced concrete meeting Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission specifications. The steel rein- forcing shall be in accordance with the requirements of the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission specifi- cations for an equivalent size of reinforced concrete culvert 
 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1831 

pipe which would be specified under like conditions. A per- missible option to this reinforcing steel requirement may be conventional deformed reinforcing bars placed as shown on the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission stan- dard drawings for box culverts of like size as a minimum. 
(D) General. The type of material permitted for under- ground facilities other than that specified in this policy shall conform to that specified in the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission standard specifications. Material for installations not covered in the standard specifications or in this policy shall be subject to approval by the chief engi- neer, taking into consideration the applicable industry code. 
(6) Installation Requirements of Water and Sewer Mains and Service Line. 
(A) All cast iron and ductile iron water mains shall be installed in accordance with Specification ANSI/AWWA C600-99 or the latest revision thereof. 
(B) All asbestos cement water mains shall be installed in accordance with Specification ANSI/AWWA C603-96 or the latest revision thereof. 
(C) All thermoplastic water mains shall be installed in accordance with Specification ASTM D 2774-94 or the lat- est revision thereof. 
(D) All thermoplastic gravity sewer piping shall be installed in accordance with Specification ASTM D 2321-00 or the latest revision thereof.] 
[(7)](6) Protective equipment. Cables, wires, small diameter pipes, and other such utility appurtenances extending from the surface of the ground shall be equipped with covers or guards to improve their visibility. 
[(8)](7) Cutting Pavement. In the event that permission is granted to cut an existing P.C.C. or A.C. pavement, all cuts, if possible, shall be made with a saw to a minimum depth of two and one-half inches (2 1/2"). The width of cut shall be determined by the width of required trench plus twelve inches (12") on each side of the trench. In the event that the distance to any adjacent longitudinal or transverse joint or crack is less than four feet (4'), the pavement shall be removed to that joint or crack. All pavement repair shall be made [to] in compliance with the 2017 Missouri Standard Specification for Highway Construction, which is incorporated by reference and made a part of this rule, as published by the Missouri Department of Transportation, 105 W. Capitol Ave., PO Box 270, Jefferson City, MO 65102, website: http://www.modot.org/business/standards_and_specs/high- wayspecs.htm, on June 8, 2017. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions to the Standard Specifications. 
[(9)](8) Special Conditions. Special conditions at specific locations, which make adherence to this [policy] rule impractical may be sub- mitted to the chief engineer for consideration of an acceptable alter- nate. 
AUTHORITY: sections 226.020 and 227.240, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Jan. 21, 1965, effective Jan. 31, 1965. For inter- vening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed Nov. 14, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission, Pamela J. Harlan, Secretary to the Commission, 105 W. Capitol Avenue, PO Box 270, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or Pamela.Harlan@modot.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 7—DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Division 10—Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission Chapter 3—Utility and Private Line Location and Relocation 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
7 CSR 10-3.020 Utility Relocation Hearings. The Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission is amending sections (1)– (9). 
PURPOSE: This amendment updates the administrative hearing process related to commission orders to relocate utility facilities con- sistent with the Missouri Administrative Procedures Act in Chapter 536, RSMo, removes unnecessary restrictive language, and autho- rizes a utility to waive an administrative hearing. 
(1) [Requirement of] Hearing Authorized. The commission has authority to order the location and relocation of utility improvements and facilities within the right-of-way of any state highway to prevent interference with the construction, maintenance, and public use of state highways. Before exercising its authority to order the relocation of utility facilities within the right-of-way, the commission shall pro- vide the opportunity for an administrative hearing under section 227.240, RSMo [upon its] to any entity, person, or corporation authorized under section 227.240, RSMo to own or maintain util- ity lines, poles, wires, conduits, pipelines, and tramways (utility facility) within state highway right-of-way regarding the commis- sion’s proposed plan of utility facility location or relocation and other incidental matters. Such entity, person, or corporation may waive, at any time, the right to an administrative hearing under section 227.240, RSMo, which is to be provided to the district engineer or his/her designee or the hearing examiner. 
(2) Notice of Hearing. Upon request by the district engineer, the commission’s hearing examiner shall prepare a written notice of hearing[. The notice shall be in writing,] that includes a plan or drawing indicating the locations within the right-of-way in which util- ities may be located and maintained, state when the commission or its contractor is scheduled to begin work on the right-of-way, state the date by which work shall be completed on utilities within the right-of-way, fix the time and place of the administrative hearing, and advise that the purpose of the hearing is to consider the commission’s proposed plan of utility location and other incidental matters. The [district engineer shall cause the] notice of hearing [to] may be served upon each entity, person, or corporation, [association or person owning or maintaining utilities] authorized under sec- tion 227.240, RSMo to own or maintain a utility facility within the right-of-way by [personal service, with certificate of service or] certified mail, with return receipt requested, at least fifteen (15) days before the date of the hearing. [The notice shall be deliv- ered or mailed at least fifteen (15) days before the date of hearing.] 
(3) [Presiding] Hearing Officer[s]. The commission’s hearing examiner [and the chief engineer or his/her designated repre- sentative shall] presides at and conducts the hearing as provided 

Page 1832 
Proposed Rules 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
in Chapter 536, RSMo and this rule, including, but not limited to, ruling on all discovery matters, objections, and motions, and having the hearing record transcribed. 
(4) Discovery. [The hearing examiner shall rule on all matters concerning discovery under section 536.073, RSMo] The parties to the hearing may conduct any method of discovery authorized in Chapter 536, RSMo. 
(5) Subpoenas. Witnesses may be summoned to appear and give tes- timony [at the hearing] or to give testimony and produce docu- ments by a subpoena or subpoena duces tecum issued by the [sec- retary to the commission] hearing examiner at the request of any party as authorized under section 536.077, RSMo. 
(6) Evidence, Arguments, and Briefs. [The hearing shall be con- ducted as provided by Chapter 536, RSMo.] The commission shall first present its evidence at the hearing. Then any party may present evidence in opposition. The parties may offer closing argu- ments before conclusion of the hearing. The hearing examiner may require written briefs to be filed within the time set by the hearing examiner for the use of the commission in reaching a final decision. [The hearing examiner may rule on all objections and motions to facilitate submission of the case to the commis- sion for its final decision.] 
(7) Transcript. [At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing examiner shall cause the entire record to be transcribed in sufficient quantities that the original may remain a perma- nent part of the commission’s records and that one (1) copy may be furnished to each member of the commission.] Any party may obtain a copy of the [record] transcript of the hearing at that party’s expense. 
(8) Report and Order. As soon as practical after receipt of the tran- scripts and briefs of the parties, if any, the hearing examiner shall submit to each member of the commission a full copy of the tran- script of the proceedings along with a [suggested] proposed report and order for consideration by the commission. 
(9) Final Decision. As soon as practical after receipt of the transcript and [suggested] proposed report and order, the commission mem- bers shall render a final decision in writing. 
AUTHORITY: section 227.240, RSMo [1986] 2016. Original rule filed May 12, 1978, effective Aug. 11, 1978. Amended: Filed Nov. 14, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission, Pamela J. Harlan, Secretary to the Commission, 105 W. Capitol Avenue, PO Box 270, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or Pamela.Harlan@modot.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 7—DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Division 10—Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission Chapter 3—Utility and Private Line Location and Relocation 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
7 CSR 10-3.030 Location and Relocation of Private Lines on State Highways. The Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission is amending sections (2)–(5) and adding a new section (6). 
PURPOSE: This amendment corrects the number of department dis- tricts from ten (10) to seven (7), clarifies the address of the commis- sion to obtain a permit application, outlines the procedures to obtain permits for emergency work, and eliminates unnecessary restrictive wording. 
(2) Private lines are permitted to cross the right-of-way of a highway on the state highway system in the same manner as provided for utility facilities in 7 CSR 10-3.010. 
(3) Longitudinal use of the highway right-of-way by private lines is not permitted except as provided for in section (4) of this rule. 
(4) Special conditions at specific locations which make adherence to this policy impractical may be submitted to the Missouri Department of Transportation chief engineer for consideration of an acceptable alternative. [If prior concurrence of the Federal Highway Administration or approval by the administrator of the Federal Highway Administration is necessary, then the chief engineer shall submit the alternative to the Federal Highway Administration or its administrator and receive its decision before giving final approval.] 
(5) Except as herein described, all work to be performed on right- of-way of the state highway system in connection with the location, relocation, or maintenance of private lines, and where the roadway, shoulders, or right-of-way will be affected by the work, must be done only under a permit or agreement to be issued prior to the commencement of the work by authority of the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission and that specifies the nature of the work to be performed. Application for permits may be made on forms provided for that purpose [and shall state specifically the nature of the work to be performed]. The chief engineer shall determine and order the location and relocation of private lines within the right-of-way of any state highway to prevent interference with the construction, maintenance, and public use of state high- ways. A deposit or bond [shall] may be required, in the depart- ment’s sole discretion, to insure completion in accordance with the permit issued. Applications for permits may be obtained at any of the [ten (10)] seven (7) district highway offices of the commission, Missouri Department of Transportation’s website located at: http://modot.mo.gov/design/UtilityResources/Permits.htm, or by requesting the [same] applications from the office of the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission at the Missouri Department of Transportation Building, 105 W. Capitol Ave., PO Box 270, Jefferson City, M[issouri]O 65102, or by calling (573) 751-2551. [Replacement of individual poles and attachments or other existing private line facilities where only spot exca- vation is required, and which excavation is not between the shoulder lines of the highway, may be considered as mainte- nance, and a permit will not be required, provided the private line owner involved abides by all parking and access regula- tions contained elsewhere in this policy for the type of high- way on which the maintenance work is to be performed. Where parking and access violations occur or if the right-of- way is left in an unsatisfactory condition, the offending pri- vate line owner may be required to secure a permit for future 
 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1833 

maintenance work on the right-of-way. The policies pre- scribed herein are intended to reflect general policies of the commission and specific application should be made and permit obtained for the contemplated work rather than to rely fully upon these rules.] 
(6) When emergency operations work is necessary, the damaged facility may be accessed immediately and without a permit by leaving the through roadways at such points as may be necessary to effect emergency repairs, provided immediate notice is given to the Missouri State Highway Patrol and the commission’s district engineer or his/her designee for the district wherein the work will be performed, and a permit for emergency operations is request- ed immediately upon discovery of the need for emergency opera- tions. A permit for emergency operations work is to be obtained as soon as practical, but in no event later than two (2) working days after the emergency operations work has commenced. For the purposes of this section (6), emergency operations includes, but is not limited to, unplanned work in response to utility lines or facilities being so damaged as to constitute an emergency situ- ation directly affecting or endangering traffic on the highway or public health or safety. 
AUTHORITY: sections 226.020 and 227.240, RSMo [1986 and 23 U.S.C. 645.215 and 23 U.S.C. 1.23(c)] 2016. Original rule filed June 10, 1988, effective Nov. 11, 1988. Amended: Filed July 29, 1994, effective Feb. 26, 1995. Amended: Filed Nov. 14, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission, Pamela J. Harlan, Secretary to the Commission, 105 W. Capitol Avenue, PO Box 270, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or Pamela.Harlan@modot.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 7—DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Division 10—Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission Chapter 4—Uniform Relocation Assistance 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
7 CSR 10-4.010 Administrative Review of Denial of Eligibility Or Amount of Relocation Assistance Benefits. The Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission is amending the rule title and sec- tions (1)–(11). 
PURPOSE: This amendment provides a uniform system for adminis- trative review of final department determinations as to the eligibility for relocation assistance payments, the amount of relocation assis- tance payments, or both. 
(1) Request for Administrative Review. Any person aggrieved by a final district determination as to eligibility for, the amount of a relo- cation assistance payment, or both, [shall be] is entitled to admin- istrative review of the determination by filing a written request for hearing with the district engineer. 
(A) Receipt Deadline. The request for hearing must be received 
by the district engineer within sixty (60) days after receipt by the applicant of the written notice of relocation claim rejection from the district engineer. 
(B) Application. To be sufficient to authorize administrative review, [T]the applicant’s written request for hearing [should be filed on a form furnished by the district engineer, but any written request for hearing sufficient to] shall identify the per- son requesting the hearing [and to indicate the reason for the request for hearing shall be deemed a sufficient request for hearing. No other formalities shall be required in the request], state that such person is eligible for a relocation assis- tance payment, and request that a relocation assistance payment in a specific amount be made to such person. 
(C) Answer. No answer or response by the [commission shall be required] department is necessary. Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the district engineer immediately shall forward the request along with a copy of the district engineer’s written notice of relocation claim rejection to the commission’s [hearing examiner who shall acknowledge receipt of the request for hearing. Upon receipt of a timely request for administrative review, the hearing examiner shall notify the chief counsel in order that s/he may assign an assistant counsel to represent the commission] chief counsel. The chief counsel shall acknowledge receipt of the request and assign counsel as the commission’s hearing examiner and department counsel, respectively, to the hearing. 
(2) Untimely Request for Administrative Review. Untimely requests for hearing shall [be deemed to be denied by the commission and the] result in the appeal board having no jurisdiction to hear the request. As a result, the commission’s hearing examiner shall [so] issue an order that dismisses the applicant’s request and notify the applicant or counsel for applicant and department coun- sel in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested of the order. [This decision shall be subject to judicial review under sec- tion 536.150, RSMo.] 
(3) [Bias. If the hearing examiner determines at any stage of the proceeding that s/he has prior knowledge of specific facts of a case that s/he deems would prevent him/her from rendering an objective report and order, s/he immediately shall cease to act and the commission shall provide an alter- nate hearing examiner.] Hearing Officer. The hearing examiner will conduct the hearing as provided in Chapter 536, RSMo and this rule, including, but not limited to, ruling on all discovery matters, objections, and motions, and having the hearing record transcribed. 
(4) Notice of Hearing. The hearing examiner shall give written notice of the date of the hearing to the applicant or counsel for applicant[, the district engineer] and [the assistant] counsel for the [commission fixing a time and place determined by the hearing examiner for a hearing. Such notice shall be mailed by the hearing examiner not less than fifteen (15) days before the date of hearing] department, and the hearing date will be not less than fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice. In instances where more than one (1) request for hearing is received from the same applicant, the hearing examiner may consolidate the cases. [If e]Either party [requests] may request that the hearing examiner grant a continuance[, the hearing examiner shall hear and determine the reasonableness of the request. If the request is granted, the hearing examiner shall give written notice fixing a time and place for hearing]. All hearings will be held at the Missouri Department of Transportation Building, 105 W. Capitol Avenue, Jefferson City, MO 65102. 
(5) Discovery. Any party may [have] conduct any method of dis- covery [under section 536.073] authorized in Chapter 536, 

Page 1834 
Proposed Rules 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
RSMo. [The hearing examiner shall rule on all disputes between the parties concerning discovery.] 
(6) Subpoenas. Witnesses may be summoned to appear to give testi- mony or to give testimony and produce documents from a subpoena or subpoena duces tecum issued by the hearing examiner as authorized under section 536.077, RSMo. [At the request of any party, the hearing examiner shall issue a subpoena; provided that subpoenas duces tecum shall be issued only by order of the commission or any member of the commission. The hearing examiner shall rule on all disputes between the par- ties concerning subpoenas.] 
(7) Hearing. There are only two (2) ultimate issues in a relocation assistance case—eligibility of the applicant for a relocation assistance payment and the amount of the payment. The applicant [shall] pre- sents evidence first at the hearing in support of the applicant’s claim for relocation assistance benefits. Then the [commission shall] department presents its evidence [in support of the denial of benefits. Any party shall have the right of cross-examination. Oral or written evidence must be received in the record to be considered by the appeal board in reaching its final decision. Any party shall be entitled to present oral argument at the hearing which, if presented, shall be preserved in the record]. The parties may make closing arguments before conclu- sion of the hearing. Any party may file a written brief and the hear- ing examiner may [require] request any party to file a written brief, suggested findings of fact and conclusions of law, or both, within the time set by the hearing examiner. [The hearing examiner may rule on all objections and motions to facilitate submission of the case for a decision by the appeal board.] 
(8) Record. [At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing examiner shall cause the entire record to be transcribed in sufficient quantities to satisfy the needs of the applicant and the appeal board. The original shall be retained as a perma- nent record of the commission. The applicant may obtain a copy of the transcript and exhibits at the applicant’s expense] Any party may obtain a copy of the transcript of the hearing at that party’s expense. 
(9) Report and Order. [As soon as practical after receipt of the transcript and briefs, suggestions of the parties, if any, or both, t]The hearing examiner shall submit to the [other members of the] appeal board a copy of the record along with a [suggested] proposed report and order. 
(10) Final Decision of the Appeal Board. The commission delegates to and vests its [F]final authority to determine relocation assistance claims [shall be vested] in [the] an appeal board which [shall] consists of the chief engineer or a designated assistant, the [chief of the] assistant to the state design engineer right-of-way [division] or a designated assistant and the chief counsel or a designated counsel that did not serve as the hearing examiner at the hearing. [Each member of the appeal board shall have one (1) vote.] The board[, after each member reads the record,] shall render a final decision by a majority vote with each board member having one (1) vote. [If briefs or oral arguments are submitted, the members of the board, in lieu of reading the entire record, may consider those portions of the record cited or referred to in the arguments or briefs to arrive at a final decision. The appeal board shall render its final decision in writing which shall be based upon competent and substantial evidence upon the whole record.] The appeal board’s decision shall be the final decision of the [agency as though entered by the] commis- sion [and it shall be subject to judicial review under section 536.100, RSMo. The hearing examiner shall forward, as soon as practical after the board’s decision, a copy of the 
decision to the applicant or his/her attorney by certified mail, return receipt requested]. 
(11) Conflict With Other Administrative Rules. The [rules and] pro- visions of this rule [shall] supersede any inconsistent [rules or] pro- visions in 7 CSR 10-4.020. 
AUTHORITY: sections 226.150 and 523.210, RSMo [1986] 2016; 42 U.S.C. [4630; 42 U.S.C. 4633] Chapter 61; 23 CFR [740.8; and 23 CFR 740.37] Part 710; and 49 CFR Part 24. Original rule filed June 9, 1975, effective June 19, 1975. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed Nov. 14, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission, Pamela J. Harlan, Secretary to the Commission, 105 W. Capitol Avenue, PO Box 270, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or Pamela.Harlan@modot.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 7—DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Division 10—Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission Chapter 4—Uniform Relocation Assistance 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
7 CSR 10-4.020 Relocation Assistance Program. The Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission is amending sections (1) and (2). 
PURPOSE: This amendment satisfies the commission obligation under state and federal law to duly file the practices and procedures for computing relocation assistance benefits. 
(1) This rule [consists of Chapter VIII] adopts the department’s Engineering Policy Guide, Category 236–Right of Way, Article 8, Relocation Assistance Program [Manual], which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this rule as published by the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission, [Right of Way] Design Division, 105 West Capitol Avenue, Jefferson City, MO 65102, [2006] October 31, 2017 Edition. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions [of this man- ual. Chapter VIII is divided into seventeen (17) sections as follows: general information, organization, relocation assis- tance advisory service, public information, preacquisition requirements, administrative records and reports, moving cost payments, in-lieu-of moving payments, replacement housing payments, incidental closing costs, increased inter- est payments, rental subsidy payments, down-payment assistance, last resort housing, possession policies, vacancy notices and appeals, and functional replacement]. 
(2) For additional information, contact [the director of right of way or] any of the department’s district engineers (see 7 CSR 10- 1.010 for addresses). 
 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1835 

AUTHORITY: sections 226.150, 227.120, and 523.210, RSMo [2000 and 227.120, RSMo Supp. 2006] 2016; 42 U.S.C. [4630; 42 U.S.C. 4633] Chapter 61; 23 CFR Part 710; and 49 CFR Part [25] 24. Original rule filed March 4, 1983, effective June 15, 1983. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed Nov. 14, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission, Pamela J. Harlan, Secretary to the Commission, 105 W. Capitol Avenue, PO Box 270, Jefferson City, MO 65102 or Pamela.Harlan@modot.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 13—DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES Division 40—Family Support Division Chapter 91—Rehabilitation Services for the Blind (RSB) 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
13 CSR 40-91.040 Payments for Vision Examinations. This rule established the criteria by which comprehensive eye examination costs were paid by the Department of Social Services. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded since the Department of Social Services no longer makes payments to medical providers for comprehensive eye examinations of first- and third-grade children not covered by insurance who fail pubic school vision screenings since section 167.195 RSMo has been repealed. 
AUTHORITY: sections 167.195 and 192.935, RSMo Supp. 2010. This rule originally filed as 19 CSR 40-11.010. Emergency rule filed Jan. 9, 2009, effective Jan. 19, 2009, expired July 17, 2009. Original rule filed Jan. 9, 2009, effective Aug. 30, 2009. Moved and amended: Filed Sept. 13, 2010, effective March 30, 2011. Rescinded: Filed Nov. 3, 2017 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Social Services, Legal Services Division-Rulemaking, PO Box 1527, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1527, or by email to Rules.Comment@dss.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 13—DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES Division 70—MO HealthNet Division Chapter 10—Nursing Home Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 13 CSR 70-10.150 Enhancement Pools. This rule created enhance- 
ment pools to increase reimbursement to government-owned nursing facilities and all nursing facilities, in an amount not to exceed the Medicare upper limit payment for the Medicaid program. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the MO HealthNet Division (MHD) no longer makes payments under this regulation. 
AUTHORITY: sections 208.153, 208.159 and 208.201, RSMo 2000. Emergency rule filed Nov. 3, 2000, effective Nov. 13, 2000, expired May 11, 2001. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2000, effective May 30, 2001. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed Nov. 3, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Social Services, Legal Services Division-Rulemaking, PO Box 1527, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1527, or by email to Rules.Comment@dss.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 13—DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES Division 70—MO HealthNet Division Chapter 15—Hospital Program 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 
13 CSR 70-15.090 Procedures for Evaluation of Appropriate Inpatient Hospital Admissions and Continued Days of Stay. The division is amending section (9). 
PURPOSE: The amendment corrects the amount that MO HealthNet reimburses for medical records needed by the division to review reim- bursement. 
(9) Payment for requested copies will be reimbursed [at ten cents (10¢) per page by submitting] by the division. MO HealthNet will reimburse up to the maximum fees for copying per section 191.227, RSMo. Providers must submit an invoice to the division [an invoice] indicating the number of pages per record. No addi- tional reimbursement will be made for postage. Copies must be leg- ible. 
AUTHORITY: sections 208.153[, RSMo Supp. 1991] and 208.201, RSMo [Supp. 1987] 2016. This rule was previously filed as 13 CSR 40-81.162. Original rule filed May 3, 1985, effective Sept. 1, 1985. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed Nov. 3, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will cost state agencies or political subdivisions approximately one thousand two hundred dol- lars ($1,200) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Department of Social Services, Legal Services Division-Rulemaking, PO Box 1527, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1527, or by email to 

Page 1836 
Proposed Rules 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
Rules.Comment@dss.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1837 
  

Page 1838 
Proposed Rules 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
Title 13—DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES Division 70—MO HealthNet Division Chapter 91—Personal Care Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
13 CSR 70-91.020 Mental Health Residential Personal Care Program. This rule established the basis for administering a person- al care program for residents of community residential facilities licensed by the Department of Mental Health. 
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the program is no longer utilized. Services have not been authorized under the Mental Health Residential Personal Care Program since 2011. The facilities for which this program was created and services were authorized have all been closed thus eliminating the need for the program. 
AUTHORITY: sections 208.152, RSMo Supp. 1993, 208.153, RSMo Supp. 1991 and 208.201, RSMo 1987. Emergency rule filed March 18, 1993, effective April 1, 1993, expired July 29, 1993. Emergency rule filed July 6, 1993, effective July 30, 1993, expired Nov. 26, 1993. Original rule filed March 16, 1993, effective Oct. 10, 1993. Rescinded: Filed Nov. 3, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Social Services, Legal Services Division-Rulemaking, PO Box 1527, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1527, or by email to Rules.Comment@dss.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 13—DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES Division 70—MO HealthNet Division Chapter 96—Medicaid Primary and Prenatal Care Clinic Program 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
13 CSR 70-96.010 Reimbursement for Medicaid Primary and Prenatal Care Clinic Program. This rule established the regulatory basis for Title XIX Medicaid payment for Primary and Prenatal Care Clinic Program services. 
PURPOSE: The MO HealthNet Division is rescinding this rule because there are no longer any providers that qualify for reimburse- ment under the rule. 
AUTHORITY: section 208.201, RSMo Supp. 1987. Emergency rule filed Jan. 14, 1994, effective Feb. 2, 1994, expired June 1, 1994. Emergency rule filed May 23, 1994, effective June 2, 1994, expired Sept. 29, 1994. Emergency amendment filed June 21, 1995, effective July 1, 1995, expired Oct. 28, 1995. Original rule filed Jan. 14, 1994, effective Aug. 28, 1994. Rescinded: Filed Nov. 3, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in 
support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Social Services, Legal Services Division-Rulemaking, PO Box 1527, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1527, or by email to Rules.Comment@dss.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 20—DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION Division 2030—Missouri Board for Architects, Professional Engineers, Professional Land Surveyors, and Professional Landscape Architects Chapter 5—Examinations 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
20 CSR 2030-5.050 Admission to Examination—Architects. This rule prohibited admission to the architectural examination of a can- didate who had an application pending in another state, unless the candidate had moved to Missouri since filing his/her original appli- cation. 
PURPOSE: Since Missouri is established as a “Direct Registration” state with the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB), all applicants for examination as an architect apply directly with NCARB and no longer with the board; thus, this rule is no longer necessary and can be rescinded. 
AUTHORITY: section 327.041, RSMo Supp. 2005. This rule original- ly filed as 4 CSR 30-5.050. Original rule filed May 25, 1970, effec- tive June 25, 1970. Amended: Filed Aug. 18, 2005, effective March 30, 2006. Moved to 20 CSR 2030-5.050, effective Aug. 28, 2006. Non-substantive change filed Oct. 21, 2015, published Dec. 31, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Nov. 15, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Board for Architects, Professional Engineers, Professional Land Surveyors, and Professional Landscape Architects, PO Box 184, Jefferson City, MO 65102, via facsimile at (573) 751-8046, or via email at moapels@pr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 20—DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION Division 2200—State Board of Nursing Chapter 1—Organization and Description of the Board 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
20 CSR 2200-1.010 General Organization. This regulation gave a description of the board of nursing and the methods and procedures where the public could obtain information or make submissions or requests. 
PURPOSE: The rule is being rescinded as the information already exists in statute or board guidelines. 
 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1839 

AUTHORITY: Chapter 335 and section 610.021(3) and (13), RSMo Supp. 2013. This rule originally filed as 4 CSR 200-1.010. Original rule filed April 5, 1976, effective Oct. 11, 1976. For intervening his- tory, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed Nov. 2, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the State Board of Nursing, Lori Scheidt, Executive Director, PO Box 656, Jefferson City, MO 65102, by fax at (573) 751-0075, or via email at nursing@pr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 20—DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION Division 2200—State Board of Nursing Chapter 1—Organization and Description of the Board 
PROPOSED RESCISSION 
20 CSR 2200-1.020 Board Compensation. This rule fixed the com- pensation for the members of the State Board of Nursing in compli- ance with the mandates of section 335.026.4., RSMo (1986). 
PURPOSE: The rule is being rescinded as not necessary since board compensation is set by statute. 
AUTHORITY: sections 335.026 and 335.036, RSMo (1994). This rule originally filed as 4 CSR 200-1.020. Emergency rule filed Sept. 18, 1981, effective Sept. 28, 1981, expired Jan. 26, 1982. Original rule filed Sept. 18, 1981, effective Jan. 14, 1982. Amended: Filed Feb. 15, 1996, effective Aug. 30, 1996. Moved to 20 CSR 2200- 1.020, effective Aug. 28, 2006. Rescinded: Filed Nov. 2, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the State Board of Nursing, Lori Scheidt, Executive Director, PO Box 656, Jefferson City, MO 65102, by fax at (573) 751-0075, or via email at nursing@pr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 20—DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION Division 2205—Missouri Board of Occupational Therapy Chapter 5—Continuing Competency Requirements 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 20 CSR 2205-5.010 Continuing Competency Requirements. The 
board is deleting section (3), renumbering as necessary, and amend- ing new sections (3) and (5). 
PURPOSE: This amendment clarifies continuing competency requirements and earning continuing competency credits. 
[(3) At least fifty percent (50%) of the twenty-four (24) con- tinuing competency credits must be directly related to the delivery of occupational therapy services, and the remaining CCCs must be related to one’s practice area or setting.] 
[(4)](3) A licensee who is or becomes licensed during a renewal cycle shall [be required to] obtain CCCs at the rate computed by the following formula: 
(A) Formula: Number of months licensed during the renewal cycle divided by the total number of months in the reporting cycle then multiplied by the number of CCCs required for renewal during the reporting cycle resulting in a total number of CCCs required to com- plete for renewal this reporting cycle. When applicable, this total will then be rounded to the nearest whole number by applying the follow- ing rounding rule: round down to the nearest whole number if the digit to the right of the decimal is four (4) or less, round up to the nearest whole number if five (5) or more. Example: An occupational therapist becomes licensed September 1, 2004, the reporting cycle is twenty-four (24) months, ending June 30, 2005, and the annual requirement is twelve (12) hours per year. 10 months ÷ 24 months × 24 = 9.9 or round up to ten (10) hours (Licensee must have com- pleted ten (10) CCCs to renew.). 
[(5)](4) Conversion of Continuing Education Units (CEU) to Continuing Competency Credits (CCC)— 
(A) One (1) CEU equals ten (10) Continuing Competency Credits; 
(B) One (1) contact hour equals one (1) Continuing Competency Credit; 
(C) Fifty (50) minutes equals one (1) Continuing Competency Credit; and 
(D) One (1) Academic Credit Hour equals ten (10) Continuing Competency Credits. 
[(6)](5) Acceptable types of continuing competency activities, corre- sponding degree of continuing competency credit, and the required documentation are as follows: 
Page 1840 Proposed Rules 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 


Continuing Competency Activity 
Minimum Continuing Competency Credit 
Maximum Continuing Competency Credits 
Audit Documentation 

PRESENTING 
Making presentations for local organizations/associations/groups on OT related topics (e.g., energy conservation, back care, and prevention of injury). 1-time presentation per topic. Time spent on preparation cannot be included. 
1 Hour equals 1 CCC 
12 CCC 
[Date and location of presentation, copy of presentation or program listing; contact person for organization] Certificate verifying presentation or verification letter from organization on their letterhead to include date, time, and length of presentation. 
Making professional presentations at state or national workshops, seminars, and conferences. 1-time presentation per topic. Time spent on preparation cannot be included. 
1 Hour equals 2 CCC 
24 CCC 
[Copy of presentation or program listing] Certificate verifying presentation or letter from organization on their letterhead to include date, time, and length of presentation. 
[Guest lecturer, t]Teaching OT related academic course per semester (must not be one’s primary role). Time spent on preparation cannot be included. 
1 Credit Hour equals 3 CCC 
24 CCC 
Syllabus of course, course outline [V]verification [letter] from [Dept. Chair] program, or certificate verifying teaching. 
Guest lecturer as a primary or co- presenter for students enrolled in occupational therapy programs or related professionals. 
1 Hour equals 1 CCC 
24 CCC 
Syllabus of course, course outline Verification from program or certificate verifying teaching. 
Providing professional in-service training and/or instruction for occupational therapists, occupational therapy assistants, [and] or related professionals. 1-time presentation per topic. Time spent on preparation cannot be included. 
1 Hour equals 1 CCC 
12 CCC 
Attendance records, goals, and objectives of in-service training. Verification letter from supervisor on their letterhead verifying presenter’s name and the date, time, and length of the presentation. 
ATTENDING WORKSHOPS/COURSES/INDEPENDENT LEARNING 
Attending workshops, seminars, lectures, on-line courses, and professional conferences [accepted by the certifying entity approved by the division] related to occupational therapy services. 
1 Hour equals 1 CCC 
24 CCC 
CEU, contact hours, certificates of attendance, letter from sponsor. 
Attending employer-provided continuing education. Does not include new staff orientation and/or annual mandatory workplace trainings (e.g. annual policy review and corporate compliance, CPR). 
1 Hour equals 1 CCC 
24 CCC 
Attendance records, certificates 
which should include title of offering, date given, and length of presentation. 
Reading a peer-reviewed, role-related professional article and writing a report describing the implications for improving skills in one’s specific role. 
1 [a]Article equals .5 CCC 
12 CCC 
Annotated bibliography and analysis of how articles impacted improving skills in one’s role. 
Successful completion of formal academic coursework. Courses indirectly or directly related to occupational therapy services. 
1 Credit Hour equals 10 CCC 
24 CCC 
Official transcript from accredited college, course description, and statement how it’s related to OT services. 
Professional study group, minimum of 3 participants. 
3 Hours equals 1 CCC 
24 CCC 
Group attendance records which should include the date and times the group met; study group goals, analysis of goal attainment, and learning. 
Independent learning with assessment element (online courses, CE articles, self- study series, etc.). 
1 Hour equals [1] 2 CCC 
12 CCC 
CEUs, contact hours, completion certificate which should include the date course was completed. 
 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1841 

p 

Independent learning without assessment element (audited coursework, multimedia course, etc.). 
[10 CCC] 1 Hour equals 1 CCC 
[24] 12 CCC 
Certificate of completion which should include the date course was completed. 

Completion of competency assessment tools (i.e., NBCOT Navigator, AOTA assessment tools, etc.). 
1 Unit equals 1 CCC 
12 CCC 
Certificate of completion. 
PUBLISHING 
Publication of article in non-peer-reviewed publication (e.g., OT Practice, SIS Quarterly, Advance, etc.). 
1 Article equals 5 CCC 
24 CCC 
Copy of publication. 

Publication of chapter(s) in occupational or related professional textbook. 
1 Chapter equals 10 CCC 
24 CCC 
Copy of [text] chapter(s) and table of contents, letter from editor. 

Publication of article in peer-reviewed professional publication (e.g., journals, book chapter, research paper). 
1 Article equals 10 CCC 
24 CCC 
Copy of [text] published article, letter from editor. 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
Mentoring a colleague to improve the skills of the protégé ([M]mentor). 
20 Hours equals 3 CCC 
12 CCC 
Goals and objectives, analysis of mentee performance which should include the dates and hours mentored. 
[Outcomes of Self-Assessment and Professional Development Plan] 
[2 CCC for Self- Assessment and Professional Dev. Plan] 
[2 CCC] 
[Acceptable documents include the completed NBCOT Self-Assessment and Professional Development Plan describing how goals were met and impacted competence/skills] 
Reflective occupational therapy practice in collaboration with an advanced colleague to improve one’s skill level. 
20 Hours equals 3 CCC 
12 CCC 
Mentor verification of skills, evaluation of [M]mentor, and experience analysis of learning. 
Volunteer services to organizations, populations, individuals that advance the reliance on the use of one’s OT skills and experiences. 
10 Hours equals 2 CCC 
12 CCC 
Verification letter from organization which should include the dates and hours volunteered. 
Report describing outcomes of volunteer service provided. 
Extensive scholarly research activities or extensive outcome studies. 
10 CCC 
24 CCC 
Grant funding number, abstract/executive summary, and/or copies of the completed research/studies. 
FIELDWORK SUPERVISION 
Level II fieldwork day-to-day direct supervision OT or OTA. Must not be one’s primary role. 
[2 CCC per rotation (8–12 weeks)] 1 unit per week of supervision per student supervised 
[24] 18 CCC 
Documentation required, name of student(s), letter of verification or certificate from school, dates of fieldwork. 
Level I fieldwork direct supervision. Must not be one’s primary role. 
1 unit per student for a complete field work rotation per student as defined by OT/OTA program 
12 CCC 
Documentation required, name of student(s), letter of verification or certificate from school, dates of fieldwork. 

Page 1842 
Proposed Rules 
pg 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
         
Entry-level or post–doctoral advanced [fieldwork] experience direct supervision. [(m]Must not be one’s primary role[)]. 
[(7)](6) Workshops, seminars, lectures, and professional conferences accepted by the certifying entity approved by the board shall automat- ically be accepted for license renewal. 
[(8)](7) Audit of Continuing Competency Activities. (A) A licensee is subject to an audit of the continuing competency 
activity documentation after the time of license renewal. (B) The board may audit continuing competency activities as time 
and resources permit. (C) Upon request, the licensee shall submit to the board for review 
the continuing competency credit documentation verifying successful completion of continuing competency requirements. Licensees shall assist the board in its audits by providing timely and complete responses to the board’s inquiries. 
(D) Failure to submit requested information to the board by the date requested or submission of inadequate or falsified records may result in disciplinary action. 
[(9)](8) Upon application and for good cause shown, the board may excuse or extend the time for completion of some or all of the required continuing competency credits. 
(A) An application shall be in writing and delivered to the board’s office. 
1. The board may require additional information or an interview with the board or its designee. Failure to timely respond or appear shall be grounds to deny the application. 
2. If the application requests excuse of the credits, a statement of how competency is being maintained shall be part of the applica- tion. 
3. If the application requests an extension of time, it shall include proposed activities. 
(B) If an extension of time is granted, the continuing competency credits earned during the extension shall not be counted in the sub- sequent renewal period. 
AUTHORITY: sections 324.065, 324.080, and 324.086, RSMo [Supp. 2010] 2016. This rule originally filed as 4 CSR 205-5.010. Original rule filed Aug. 4, 1998, effective Dec. 30, 1998. For inter- vening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed Nov. 9, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with Vanessa Beauchamp, Executive Director, State Board of Occupational Therapy, PO Box 1335, Jefferson City, MO 65102, by facsimile at (573) 526-3489, or via email at ot@pr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is sched- uled. 
Title 20—DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION Division 2245—Real Estate Appraisers Chapter 2—General Rules 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 20 CSR 2245-2.050 Appraiser’s Assignment Log. The commission 
is proposing to amend section (1). 
PURPOSE: This amendment removes the requirement to record the hours spent to complete an appraisal in an assignment log. 
(1) Every licensee shall maintain a summarized listing of the real estate appraisal assignments which the licensee is required to retain under section 339.537, RSMo. This summarized listing shall include, at a minimum, the following information: 
(F) Appraised value; and (G) Type of form used, if any[; and (H) Actual number of hours used to complete the appraisal]. 
AUTHORITY: sections 339.509 and 339.537, RSMo [2000] 2016. This rule originally filed as 4 CSR 245-2.050. Original rule filed Sept. 12, 1996, effective March 30, 1997. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed Nov. 9, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Real Estate Appraisers Commission, PO Box 1335, Jefferson City, MO 65102, by facsimile at (573) 526-3489, or via email at reacom@pr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 20—DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION Division 2245—Real Estate Appraisers Chapter 10—Appraisal Management Company 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 20 CSR 2245-10.010 Appraisal Management Company Application 
Requirements. The board is amending sections (1) and (3). 
PURPOSE: This amendment changes information required for con- tact information for service of process, amends owner information 
[2 CCC per rotation (8-12 weeks)] 1 unit per week of supervision per student supervised 
[24 ] 18 CCC 
Documentation required, name of student(s), letter or certificate of verification from school, dates of fieldwork. 
   
 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1843 

required if an individual owns more than ten percent (10%), and ver- ification of licensure requirements. 
(1) To apply for a license, an appraisal management company (AMC) shall submit a nonrefundable initial application fee as established by rule in 20 CSR 2245-5.020(2) along with the written application on a form provided by the commission which shall include, but is not limited to, the following information: 
(D) [If the entity is not a corporation that is domiciled in this state, t]The name and contact information for the company’s agent for service[s] of process in this state; 
(E) The name, address, and contact information for any individual or any corporation, partnership, or other business entity that owns more than ten percent (10%) [or more] of the appraisal manage- ment company; 
(G) Proof of submission of fingerprints to the Missouri State Highway Patrol’s approved vendor for both a Missouri State Highway Patrol and Federal Bureau of Investigation background check for the controlling person and each person who owns more than ten percent (10%) of an appraisal management company as listed on the applica- tion; [and] 
(H) A surety bond in the amount of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000)[.]; and 
(I) Verification from each state, United States territory, province, or country regulatory entity in which a license, certificate, registra- tion, or permit as an appraisal management company is held or has ever been held, submitted directly to the commission. 
(3) The initial application submitted by the appraisal management company shall include the following certifications: 
(D) That the AMC has reviewed each person or entity that owns more than ten percent (10%) of the AMC and no person or entity owning more than ten percent (10%) of the AMC has held a license or certificate that [is currently on discipline] was refused, denied, cancelled, revoked, or surrendered in lieu of revocation. 
AUTHORITY: sections 43.543, 339.509, 339.511, [and] 339.513, [RSMo Supp. 2012,] and [section] 339.544, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2012, effective June 30, 2013. Amended: Filed Nov. 9, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will cost private entities approximately three hundred dollars ($300) to six hundred dollars ($600) for the first year of implementation and approximately fifteen dollars ($15) to thirty dollars ($30) annually thereafter for the life of the rule. It is anticipated that the costs will recur for the life of the rule, may vary with inflation, and are expected to increase at the rate projected by the Legislative Oversight Committee. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Real Estate Appraisers Commission, PO Box 1335, Jefferson City, MO 65102, by facsimile at (573) 526-3489, or via email at reacom@pr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Page 1844 Proposed Rules 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 

 
 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1845 

Title 20—DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION Division 2245—Real Estate Appraisers Chapter 10—Appraisal Management Company 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 20 CSR 2245-10.020 Appraisal Management Company Standards 
of Practice. The commission is amending section (1). 
PURPOSE: This amendment clarifies language regarding licensure status of appraisers who wish to work with appraisal management companies. 
(1) An appraisal management company (AMC) that has been issued a registration by the Missouri Real Estate Appraisers Commission under these rules shall be responsible for complying with the follow- ing: 
(I) Shall conduct its appraisal management services in accor- dance with the requirements of section 129E(a) through (i) of the Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. 1639e(a) through (i), and regu- lations thereunder; 
[(I)](J) Shall not employ any person directly involved in appraisal management services who has a license or certificate to act as an appraiser in Missouri or in any other state that [is currently on dis- cipline] was refused, denied, cancelled, revoked, or surrendered in lieu of a pending revocation and not subsequently granted or reinstated; 
[(J)](K) Shall not knowingly enter into any independent contractor arrangement, whether in verbal, written, or in other form, with any person who has had a license or certificate to act as an appraiser in Missouri or in any other state refused, denied, cancelled, revoked, or surrendered in lieu of a pending revocation and not subsequently granted or reinstated; 
[(K)](L) Shall not knowingly enter into any contract, agreement, or other business relationship directly involved with the performance of real estate appraisal or appraisal management services, whether in verbal, written, or any other form, with any entity that employs, has entered into an independent contract arrangement, or has entered into any contract, agreement, or other business relationship, whether in verbal, written, or any other form, with any person who has ever had a license or certificate to act as an appraiser in Missouri or in any other state, refused, denied, cancelled, revoked, or surrendered in lieu of a pending revocation and not subsequently granted or rein- stated; 
[(L)](M) Shall not prohibit an appraiser who is part of an appraiser panel from recording the fee that the appraiser was paid by the appraisal management company for the performance of the appraisal within the appraisal report; 
[(M)](N) Shall not require an appraiser to modify any aspect of an appraisal report unless the modification complies with Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice; 
[(N)](O) Shall only require an appraiser to prepare an appraisal under a time frame that affords the appraiser, in their own profes- sional judgment, the ability to meet all relevant legal and professional obligations. Appraisers shall decline appraisal assignments made out- side of such time frame and shall notify the AMC accordingly; 
[(O)](P) Shall not prohibit or inhibit legal or other allowable com- munication between the appraiser and— 
1. The lender; 2. A real estate licensee; or 3. Any person from whom the appraiser, in the appraiser’s own 
professional judgment, believes the communication would be rele- vant; 
[(P)](Q) Shall not require the appraiser to do anything that does not comply with the— 
1. Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice; 
2. Sections 339.500 to 339.549, RSMo, and the regulations promulgated thereunder; [or] 
3. Any assignment conditions required by the client; or 
4. The appraisal independence standards of the Truth in Lending Act (TILA); 
[(Q)](R) Shall not make any portion of the appraiser’s fee or the appraisal management company’s fee contingent on a predetermined or favorable outcome, including but not limited to: 
1. A loan closing; or 
2. Specific dollar amount being achieved by the appraiser in the appraisal report; 
[(R)](S) Shall not require an appraiser to provide the appraisal management company with the appraiser’s digital signature or seal; and 
[(S)](T) Shall not alter, modify, or otherwise change a completed appraisal report submitted by an appraiser. 
AUTHORITY: sections 339.509, [and] 339.511, [RSMo Supp. 2012,] and [section] 339.544, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2012, effective June 30, 2013. Amended: Filed Nov. 9, 2017. 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Real Estate Appraisers Commission, PO Box 1335, Jefferson City, MO 65102, by facsimile at (573) 526-3489, or via email at reacom@pr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
Title 20—DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION Division 2245—Real Estate Appraisers Chapter 10—Appraisal Management Company 
PROPOSED AMENDMENT 20 CSR 2245-10.030 Renewal. The board is amending subsections 
(2)(A) and (2)(B). 
PURPOSE: This amendment requires appraisal management compa- nies to have a process to verify active licensure. 
(2) At the time of renewal the AMC shall certify to the commission on the renewal form that— 
(A) The AMC has a system and process in place to verify that an individual being added to the appraiser panel holds an active license in good standing in this state; 
(B) The AMC has a system in place to verify that an individual whom the AMC is making an assignment for the completion of an appraisal [does not currently hold a license or certificate on discipline] has not had a license or certificate refused, denied, cancelled, revoked, or surrendered in lieu of pending revocation and not subsequently granted or reinstated; 
AUTHORITY: sections 339.511, [and] 339.525, [RSMo Supp. 2012,] and [section] 339.544, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2012, effective June 30, 2013. Amended: Filed Nov. 9, 2017. 

Page 1846 
Proposed Rules 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. 
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Real Estate Appraisers Commission, PO Box 1335, Jefferson City, MO 65102, by facsimile at (573) 526-3489, or via email at reacom@pr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled. 
December 15, 2017 Orders of Rulemaking MISSOURI Vol. 42, No. 24 REGISTER 

This section will contain the final text of the rules proposed by agencies. The order of rulemaking is required to con- tain a citation to the legal authority upon which the order of rulemaking is based; reference to the date and page or pages where the notice of proposed rulemaking was published in the Missouri Register; an explanation of any change between the text of the rule as contained in the notice of proposed rule- making and the text of the rule as finally adopted, together with the reason for any such change; and the full text of any section or subsection of the rule as adopted which has been changed from that contained in the notice of proposed rule- making. The effective date of the rule shall be not less than thirty (30) days after the date of publication of the revision to the Code of State Regulations. 
The agency is also required to make a brief summary of the general nature and extent of comments submitted in support of or opposition to the proposed rule and a concise summary of the testimony presented at the hearing, if any, held in connection with the rulemaking, together with a con- cise summary of the agency’s findings with respect to the merits of any such testimony or comments which are opposed in whole or in part to the proposed rule. The ninety- (90-) day period during which an agency shall file its Order of Rulemaking for publication in the Missouri Register begins either: 1) after the hearing on the Proposed Rulemaking is held; or 2) at the end of the time for submission of comments to the agency. During this period, the agency shall file with the secretary of state the order of rulemaking, either putting the proposed rule into effect, with or without further changes, or withdrawing the proposed rule. 
Title 13—DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES Division 70—MO HealthNet Division Chapter 10—Nursing Home Program 
ORDER OF RULEMAKING 
By the authority vested in the MO HealthNet Division under sections 208.153, 208.159, and 208.201, RSMo 2016, the division amends a rule as follows: 
13 CSR 70-10.016 Global Per Diem Adjustments to Nursing Facility and HIV Nursing Facility Reimbursement Rates is amended. 
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on September 1, 2017 (42 MoReg 1233–1239). No changes have been made in the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This pro- posed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations. 
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The MO HealthNet Division (MHD) received multiple comments on the proposed amendment from one (1) interested party, Harvey M. Tettlebaum, Partner with Husch Blackwell, LLP. As a result of the various comments, Mr. Tettlebaum believes the regulation should remain as is, and it should not be revised as set forth in the proposed amendment. 
COMMENT #1: Mr. Tettlebaum commented that he believes the methodology proposed in the amendment to reduce the nursing facil- ity reimbursement rate to be contrary to the mandates of House Bill 11 (HB 11), is arbitrary, and in violation of equal protection guaran- 
tees provided by the Missouri and United States Constitutions. 
RESPONSE: HB 11 does not indicate the manner in which nursing facilities’ per diem rates are to be reduced. HB 11 provides the total amount of the appropriation for the Title XIX Medicaid nursing facil- ity program approved by the General Assembly and the Governor which resulted in a reduction from the previous year’s appropriation. MHD has been charged with implementing nursing facility reimburse- ment under section 208.159, RSMo, through the rulemaking process, such as it is doing here. In Beverly Enterprises-Mo. v. Dep’t of Soc. Servs., 349 S.W.3d 337 (Mo. App. W.D. 2008), the Missouri Court of Appeals, Western District, held that MHD has the authority to establish reasonable costs for nursing facility services as a basis for adjusting per diem reimbursement rates so as to stay within MHD’s appropriation. In the proposed amendment, MHD calculated each facility’s per diem rate by taking the change in the appropriation and dividing it by the number of estimated Medicaid days to be paid during the state fiscal year to determine the average change in the per diem rate, and reducing each nursing facility’s current reimbursement rate by the average change to determine each facility’s revised per diem rate. MHD’s rate reduction methodology is not arbitrary because MHD has authority to prescribe the methodology under state and fed- eral law. Since the methodology is applied in the same manner to each nursing facility, it does not violate equal protection guarantees under Missouri or federal law. MHD has not made a change to the proposed amendment as a result of this comment. 
COMMENT #2: Mr. Tettlebaum commented that he believes the methodology proposed in the amendment to reduce the nursing facility reimbursement rate violates federal law for failing to ensure Medicaid recipients have adequate access to services by having pay- ments inconsistent with efficiency, economy, and quality of care. 
RESPONSE: The state complies with all federal and state laws in the administration of the Title XIX Medicaid nursing facility program, including when implementing a reimbursement change for the pro- gram. Based upon aggregate data from the nursing facilities, MHD does not foresee that diminished access will result from the rate reduction. Currently, based upon this data, nursing facilities are only at seventy-four percent (74%) of their Medicaid capacity with nearly thirteen thousand (13,000) Medicaid beds unoccupied throughout the state. With the current availability of Medicaid beds at facilities, there is no apparent access issue at this time. MHD feels the proposed pay- ment rate reduction will maintain a level of efficiency, economy, and quality of care for participants in a nursing facility. However, in accordance with federal guidelines, MHD will continue to monitor access. MHD has not made a change to the proposed amendment as a result of this comment. 
COMMENT #3: Mr. Tettlebaum commented that he believes the methodology proposed in the amendment to reduce the nursing facil- ity reimbursement rate violates the prohibition on laws which impair the obligations of contracts as proscribed by the Missouri and United States Constitutions because the rate reduction may result in lower reimbursement to providers that may impose upon their contractual obligations with various vendors. 
RESPONSE: MHD is required to operate its program within the guidelines and appropriation set by the General Assembly and state budget. The power of appropriation rests with the General Assembly, and MHD can only withdraw from the State Treasury what has been appropriated. Mo. Const. art. IV, section 28. As discussed in MHD’s response to Comment #1, HB 11 required a reduction to the nursing facility reimbursement per diem which the proposed amendment seeks to effectuate. MHD has not made a change to the proposed amendment as a result of this comment. 
1847 

Page 1848 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 

Orders of Rulemaking 

Title 20—DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION Division 2220—State Board of Pharmacy Chapter 2—General Rules 
ORDER OF RULEMAKING 
By the authority vested in the State Board of Pharmacy under sec- tions 338.140, 338.210, 338.220, 338.240, and 338.280, RSMo 2016, the board amends a rule as follows: 
20 CSR 2220-2.650 Standards of Operation for a Class J: Shared Services Pharmacy is amended. 
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on September 1, 2017 (42 MoReg 1240–1243). No changes have been made in the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This pro- posed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publica- tion in the Code of State Regulations. 
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: No comments were received. 
December 15, 2017 In Additions MISSOURI Vol. 42, No. 24 REGISTER 

This section may contain notice of hearings, correction notices, public information notices, rule action notices, statements of actual costs, and other items required to be pub- lished in the Missouri Register by law. 

1849 
 
Page 1850 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
In Additions 
  
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
Missouri Register 
Page 1851 
Title 20—DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION 
IN ADDITION 
Pursuant to section 226.096, RSMo, regarding the Construction Claims Binding Arbitration Cap for the Missouri Department of Transportation, the Director of Insurance, Financial Institutions and Professional Registration is required to calculate the new limit. 
Using Implicit Price Deflator (IPD) for Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE), as required by section 226.096, RSMo, the Construction Claims Binding Arbitration Cap for the Missouri Department of Transportation effective January 1, 2018, was estab- lished by the following calculation: 
Index Based on 2009 Dollars Third Quarter 2016 IPD Index 111.029 Third Quarter 2017 IPD Index 112.687 
New 2018 Limit = 2017 Limit × (2017 Index/2016 Index) 429,225 = 422,910 × (112.687/111.029) 
Title 20—DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION 
IN ADDITION 
Pursuant to section 537.610, RSMo, regarding the Sovereign Immunity Limits for Missouri Public Entities, the Director of Insurance, Financial Institutions and Professional Registration is required to calculate the new limit on awards for liability. 
Using Implicit Price Deflator (IPD) for Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE), as required by section 537.610, RSMo, the two (2) new Sovereign Immunity Limits effective January 1, 2018, were established by the following calculations: 
Index Based on 2009 Dollars Third Quarter 2016 IPD Index 111.029 Third Quarter 2017 IPD Index 112.687 
New 2018 Limit = 2017 Limit × (2017 Index/2016 Index) 
For all claims arising out of a single accident or occurrence: 2,804,046 = 2,762,789 × (112.687/111.029) 
For any one (1) person in a single accident or occurrence: 420,606 = 414,418 × (112.687/111.029) 
Title 20—DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION 
IN ADDITION 
Pursuant to section 105.711, RSMo, regarding the State Legal Expense Fund, the Director of Insurance, Financial Institutions and Professional Registration is required to calculate the new limit. 
Using Implicit Price Deflator (IPD) for Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE), as required by section 105.711, RSMo, the State Legal Expense Fund Limit effective January 1, 2018, was established by the following calculation: 
Index Based on 2009 Dollars Third Quarter 2016 IPD Index 111.029 Third Quarter 2017 IPD Index 112.687 
New 2018 Limit = 2017 Limit × (2017 Index/2016 Index) 439,074 = 432,614 × (112.687/111.029) 

MISSOURI Dissolutions December 15, 2017 REGISTER Vol. 42, No. 24 

The Secretary of State is required by sections 347.141 and 359.481, RSMo 2016, to publish dissolutions of limited liability companies and limited partnerships. The content requirements for the one-time publishing of these notices are prescribed by statute. This listing is published pursuant to these statutes. We request that documents submitted for publication in this section be submitted in camera ready 8 1/2" x 11" manuscript by email to adrules.dissolutions@sos.mo.gov. 

 

 
1852 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
Missouri Register 
Page 1853 
  
 

Page 1854 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 

Dissolutions 
     
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
Missouri Register 
Page 1855 
  
 

Page 1856 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 

Dissolutions 
    

Rule Changes Since Update to December 15, 2017 Code of State Regulations MISSOURI 
Vol. 42, No. 24 REGISTER 

This cumulative table gives you the latest status of rules. It contains citations of rulemakings adopted or proposed after deadline for the monthly Update Service to the Code of State Regulations, citations are to volume and page number in the Missouri Register, except for material in this issue. The first number in the table cite refers to the volume number or the publication year—41 (2016) and 42 (2017). MoReg refers to Missouri Register and the numbers refer to a specific Register page, R indicates a rescission, W indicates a withdrawal, S indicates a statement of actual cost, T indicates an order terminating a rule, N.A. indicates not applicable, RAN indicates a rule action notice, RUC indicates a rule under consideration, and F indicates future effective date. 
Rule Number Agency Emergency Proposed 
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION 
1 CSR 10 State Officials’ Salary Compensation Schedule 
Order 
In Addition 
This Issue 
1 CSR 20-5.015 Personnel Advisory Board and Division of Personnel 41 MoReg 1538 
1 CSR 20-5.020 Personnel Advisory Board and Division of Personnel 41 MoReg 1539 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
2 CSR 90-10 Weights, Measures and Consumer Protection 42 MoReg 1203 
2 CSR 100-12.010 Missouri Agricultural and Small Business Development Authority 42 MoReg 1027 42 MoReg 1607 
DEPARTMENT OF CONSERVATION 
3 CSR 10-3.010 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1363 
3 CSR 10-5.425 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1363 
3 CSR 10-8.510 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1364 
3 CSR 10-9.110 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1364 
3 CSR 10-9.625 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1365 
3 CSR 10-10.727 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1365 
3 CSR 10-10.744 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1366 
3 CSR 10-10.767 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1366 
3 CSR 10-11.180 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1366 
3 CSR 10-12.110 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1368 
3 CSR 10-12.115 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1368 
3 CSR 10-12.135 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1368 
3 CSR 10-20.805 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1372 
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
4 CSR 240-3.050 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1641R 
4 CSR 240-3.163 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1231R 
4 CSR 240-3.164 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1231R 
4 CSR 240-10.075 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1641 
4 CSR 240-18.010 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1232 
4 CSR 240-120.011 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1145 
4 CSR 240-120.031 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1146 
4 CSR 240-120.060 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1146 
4 CSR 240-120.065 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1147 
4 CSR 240-120.070 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1151 
4 CSR 240-120.080 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1151 
4 CSR 240-120.085 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1151 
4 CSR 240-120.090 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1156 
4 CSR 240-120.100 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1158 
4 CSR 240-120.110 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1158 
4 CSR 240-120.120 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1159 
4 CSR 240-120.130 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1159 
4 CSR 240-120.140 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1160 
4 CSR 240-121.010 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1161 
4 CSR 240-121.020 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1161 
4 CSR 240-121.030 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1162 
4 CSR 240-121.040 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1163 
4 CSR 240-121.050 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1163 
4 CSR 240-121.060 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1164 
4 CSR 240-121.180 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1164 
4 CSR 240-123.010 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1164 
4 CSR 240-123.020 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1165 
4 CSR 240-123.030 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1166 
4 CSR 240-123.040 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1167 
4 CSR 240-123.050 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1169 
4 CSR 240-123.060 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1169 
4 CSR 240-123.065 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1170 
4 CSR 240-123.070 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1174 
4 CSR 240-123.080 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1174 
4 CSR 240-123.090 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1175 
4 CSR 240-123.095 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1176 
4 CSR 240-124.010 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1180 
4 CSR 240-124.020 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1180 
4 CSR 240-124.030 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1180 
4 CSR 240-124.040 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1181 
4 CSR 240-124.045 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1182 
4 CSR 240-124.050 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1184 
4 CSR 240-124.060 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1185 
4 CSR 240-125.010 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1185 
4 CSR 240-125.020 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1186 
4 CSR 240-125.040 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1187 
4 CSR 240-125.050 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1187 
4 CSR 240-125.060 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1188 
4 CSR 240-125.070 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1189 
4 CSR 240-125.090 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1192 
4 CSR 240-126.010 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1192 
4 CSR 240-126.020 Public Service Commission 
42 MoReg 1193 
1857 
Page 1858 
Rule Changes Since Update 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
Rule Number Agency Emergency Proposed Order In Addition 
4 CSR 240-127.010 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1194 
4 CSR 340-2 Division of Energy 42 MoReg 749 
4 CSR 340-6.010 Division of Energy 41 MoReg 1908 
DEPARTMENT OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION 
5 CSR 20-100.210 Division of Learning Services 42 MoReg 1071 42 MoReg 1797 
5 CSR 20-300.110 Division of Learning Services N.A. 42 MoReg 1797 
5 CSR 20-300.150 Division of Learning Services 42 MoReg 1072R 42 MoReg 1798R 
5 CSR 20-400.640 Division of Learning Services 42 MoReg 1581 
5 CSR 20-500.310 Division of Learning Services 42 MoReg 1760R 
5 CSR 20-500.340 Division of Learning Services 42 MoReg 1760R 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
7 CSR Department of Transportation 41 MoReg 845 
7 CSR 10-1.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1643 
7 CSR 10-3.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission This Issue 
7 CSR 10-3.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission This Issue 
7 CSR 10-3.030 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission This Issue 
7 CSR 10-4.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission This Issue 
7 CSR 10-4.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission This Issue 
7 CSR 10-5.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1412 
7 CSR 10-6.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1413 
7 CSR 10-6.030 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1414 
7 CSR 10-6.040 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1415 
7 CSR 10-6.050 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1416 
7 CSR 10-6.060 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1417 
7 CSR 10-6.070 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1418 
7 CSR 10-6.080 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1419 
7 CSR 10-6.085 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1420 
7 CSR 10-6.090 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1423 
7 CSR 10-6.100 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1424 
7 CSR 10-7.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1645 
7 CSR 10-12.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1646 
7 CSR 10-12.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1646 
7 CSR 10-12.030 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1647 
7 CSR 10-17.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1648 
7 CSR 10-17.030 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1651 
7 CSR 10-17.040 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1652 
7 CSR 10-17.050 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1653 
7 CSR 10-17.060 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1654 
7 CSR 10-18.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 91 42 MoReg 1655 
7 CSR 10-19.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 93R 
7 CSR 10-27.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1656 
7 CSR 10-27.040 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1656 
7 CSR 60-2.010 Traffic and Highway Safety Division 41 MoReg 1688 
7 CSR 60-2.020 Traffic and Highway Safety Division 41 MoReg 1689 
7 CSR 60-2.030 Traffic and Highway Safety Division 41 MoReg 1690 
7 CSR 60-2.040 Traffic and Highway Safety Division 41 MoReg 1695 
7 CSR 60-2.050 Traffic and Highway Safety Division 41 MoReg 1699 
7 CSR 60-2.060 Traffic and Highway Safety Division 41 MoReg 1699 
7 CSR 265-9.010 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1657 
7 CSR 265-9.020 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1658 
7 CSR 265-9.040 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1659R 
7 CSR 265-9.050 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1659 
7 CSR 265-9.060 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1660R 
7 CSR 265-9.070 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1660 
7 CSR 265-9.090 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1661R 
7 CSR 265-9.100 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1661 
7 CSR 265-9.110 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1661 
7 CSR 265-9.130 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1662 
7 CSR 265-9.140 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1662R 
7 CSR 265-9.150 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1663R 
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS 
8 CSR Department of Labor and Industrial Relations 41 MoReg 845 
DEPARTMENT OF MENTAL HEALTH 
9 CSR Department of Mental Health 41 MoReg 845 
9 CSR 45-4.010 Division of Developmental Disabilities 42 MoReg 1761 
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES 
10 CSR Department of Natural Resources 41 MoReg 845 
10 CSR 10-6.250 Air Conservation Commission 40 MoReg 1023 41 MoReg 37 
10 CSR 20-7.031 Clean Water Commission 42 MoReg 1424 
10 CSR 30-1.010 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1584R 
10 CSR 30-2.010 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1584R 
10 CSR 30-2.020 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1584R 
10 CSR 30-2.030 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1585R 
10 CSR 30-2.040 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1585R 
10 CSR 30-2.050 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1585R 
10 CSR 30-2.060 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1585R 
10 CSR 30-2.070 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1586R 
10 CSR 30-2.080 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1586R 
10 CSR 30-2.090 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1586R 
10 CSR 30-2.100 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1587R 
10 CSR 30-2.110 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1587R 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY 
11 CSR Department of Public Safety 42 MoReg 990 
11 CSR 30-16.010 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 180 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
Missouri Register Page 1859 
Rule Number Agency Emergency Proposed Order In Addition 
11 CSR 30-16.020 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 182 
11 CSR 45-4.020 Missouri Gaming Commission 41 MoReg 1543 
11 CSR 45-5.053 Missouri Gaming Commission 41 MoReg 1543 
11 CSR 45-9.120 Missouri Gaming Commission 41 MoReg 1544 
11 CSR 50-2.010 Missouri State Highway Patrol 42 MoReg 1751 42 MoReg 1764 
11 CSR 75-15.020 Peace Officer Standards and Training Program 42 MoReg 1031 42 MoReg 1607 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE 
12 CSR Department of Revenue 42 MoReg 990 
12 CSR 10-23.600 Director of Revenue 42 MoReg 1223 42 MoReg 1196 42 MoReg 1668 
12 CSR 10-24.200 Director of Revenue 42 MoReg 1232 42 MoReg 1799 
12 CSR 10-41.010 Director of Revenue 42 MoReg 1752 42 MoReg 1765 
12 CSR 30-4.010 State Tax Commission 41 MoReg 160 
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES 
13 CSR Department of Social Services 42 MoReg 990 
13 CSR 40-2.030 Family Support Division 42 MoReg 1057 42 MoReg 1072 42 MoReg 1799 
13 CSR 40-2.080 Family Support Division 42 MoReg 1587 
13 CSR 40-8.020 Family Support Division 42 MoReg 1060 42 MoReg 1086 42 MoReg 1799 
13 CSR 40-34.070 Family Support Division 42 MoReg 1588R 
13 CSR 40-91.040 Family Support Division This IssueR 
13 CSR 70-3.030 MO HealthNet Division 42 MoReg 1589 
13 CSR 70-10.016 MO HealthNet Division 41 MoReg 1054 42 MoReg 1225 42 MoReg 1233 This Issue 
13 CSR 70-10.030 MO HealthNet Division 42 MoReg 1356 42 MoReg 1377 
13 CSR 70-10.150 MO HealthNet Division This IssueR 
13 CSR 70-15.010 MO HealthNet Division 42 MoReg 1061 42 MoReg 1097 42 MoReg 1799 
13 CSR 70-15.090 MO HealthNet Division This Issue 
13 CSR 70-15.110 MO HealthNet Division 42 MoReg 1063 42 MoReg 1101 42 MoReg 1799 
13 CSR 70-91.020 MO HealthNet Division This IssueR 
13 CSR 70-96.010 MO HealthNet Division This IssueR 
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS 
14 CSR Department of Corrections 42 MoReg 990 
14 CSR 80-3.020 State Board of Probation and Parole 42 MoReg 1768 
ELECTED OFFICIALS 
15 CSR 30-120.010 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1297 42 MoReg 1318 
15 CSR 30-120.020 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1298 42 MoReg 1318 
15 CSR 30-120.030 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1298 42 MoReg 1319 
15 CSR 30-120.040 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1299 42 MoReg 1320 
15 CSR 30-120.050 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1299 42 MoReg 1320 
15 CSR 30-120.060 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1300 42 MoReg 1321 
15 CSR 30-120.070 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1301 42 MoReg 1321 
15 CSR 40-3.170 State Auditor 42 MoReg 1017 42 MoReg 1031 42 MoReg 1607 
15 CSR 60-10.030 Attorney General 42 MoReg 974 42 MoReg 1611 
RETIREMENT SYSTEMS 
16 CSR 10-5.010 The Public School Retirement System of Missouri 42 MoReg 1552 
16 CSR 10-6.060 The Public School Retirement System of Missouri 42 MoReg 1553 
16 CSR 50-2.010 The County Employees’ Retirement Fund 42 MoReg 1591 
16 CSR 50-2.030 The County Employees’ Retirement Fund 42 MoReg 1592 
16 CSR 50-2.140 The County Employees’ Retirement Fund 42 MoReg 1107 42 MoReg 1669 
16 CSR 50-20.120 The County Employees’ Retirement Fund 42 MoReg 1107 42 MoReg 1669 
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND SENIOR SERVICES 
19 CSR 10-10 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 991 
19 CSR 10-15.010 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1768 
19 CSR 10-15.020 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1769 
19 CSR 10-15.030 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1769 
19 CSR 10-15.040 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1770R 
19 CSR 10-15.050 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1752 42 MoReg 1770 
19 CSR 10-33.010 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1774 
19 CSR 10-33.050 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1774 
19 CSR 15-8.410 Division of Senior and Disability Services 40 MoReg 131 
19 CSR 20-1.040 Division of Community and Public Health 42 MoReg 1639 42 MoReg 1663 
19 CSR 30-30.050 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1776 
19 CSR 30-30.060 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1777 
19 CSR 30-30.061 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1754 42 MoReg 1785 
19 CSR 30-30.070 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1789 
19 CSR 30-40.365 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1322 
19 CSR 30-40.720 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1302 42 MoReg 1322 
19 CSR 30-81.030 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1137 42 MoReg 1197 
19 CSR 60-50 Missouri Health Facilities Review Committee 42 MoReg 1612 42 MoReg 1670 42 MoReg 1800 
DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION 
20 CSR Applied Behavior Analysis Maximum Benefit 42 MoReg 321 
20 CSR Construction Claims Binding Arbitration Cap This Issue 
20 CSR Sovereign Immunity Limits This Issue 
20 CSR State Legal Expense Fund Cap This Issue 
20 CSR 2010-2.160 Missouri State Board of Accountancy 42 MoReg 1790 
20 CSR 2015-1.030 Acupuncturist Advisory Committee 42 MoReg 156 
20 CSR 2030-5.050 Missouri Board for Architects, Professional Engineers, Professional Land Surveyors, and 
Professional Landscape Architects This IssueR 
20 CSR 2070-2.090 State Board of Chiropractic Examiners 41 MoReg 1525 
20 CSR 2110-2.001 Missouri Dental Board 42 MoReg 1107 42 MoReg 1669 
20 CSR 2197-1.040 Board of Therapeutic Massage 41 MoReg 825 
20 CSR 2200-1.010 State Board of Nursing This IssueR 
20 CSR 2200-1.020 State Board of Nursing This IssueR 
Page 1860 
Rule Changes Since Update 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
Rule Number Agency Emergency Proposed Order In Addition 
20 CSR 2200-4.022 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1663R 
20 CSR 2200-4.025 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1664R 
20 CSR 2200-4.026 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1664R 
20 CSR 2200-4.027 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1664R 
20 CSR 2200-4.028 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1664R 
20 CSR 2200-4.029 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1665R 
20 CSR 2200-6.060 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1327 
20 CSR 2205-5.010 Missouri Board of Occupational Therapy This Issue 
20 CSR 2220-2.025 State Board of Pharmacy 42 MoReg 1665 
20 CSR 2220-2.650 State Board of Pharmacy 42 MoReg 1227 42 MoReg 1240 This Issue 
20 CSR 2233-1.040 State Committee of Marital and Family Therapists 42 MoReg 1065 42 MoReg 1108 42 MoReg 1669 
20 CSR 2245-2.050 Real Estate Appraisers This Issue 
20 CSR 2245-10.010 Real Estate Appraisers This Issue 
20 CSR 2245-10.020 Real Estate Appraisers This Issue 
20 CSR 2245-10.030 Real Estate Appraisers This Issue 
20 CSR 2263-2.045 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1327R 
20 CSR 2263-2.050 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1592 
20 CSR 2263-2.051 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1596 
20 CSR 2263-2.060 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1599 
20 CSR 2263-2.082 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1602 
20 CSR 2263-2.085 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1602 
20 CSR 2263-3.040 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1606 
MISSOURI CONSOLIDATED HEALTH CARE PLAN 
22 CSR 10-2.030 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1755 42 MoReg 1793 
22 CSR 10-2.089 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1756 42 MoReg 1793 
22 CSR 10-2.094 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1358R 42 MoReg 1382R 42 MoReg 1358 42 MoReg 1382 
22 CSR 10-2.120 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1359R 42 MoReg 1383R 42 MoReg 1359 42 MoReg 1383 
22 CSR 10-2.135 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1756 42 MoReg 1794 
22 CSR 10-3.090 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1757 42 MoReg 1794 
22 CSR 10-3.135 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1758 42 MoReg 1795 
December 15, 2017 Emergency Rule Table MISSOURI Vol. 42, No. 24 REGISTER 

Agency 
Department of Agriculture Animal Health 2 CSR 30-10.010 Inspection of Meat and Poultry 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
... . 
... . 
... . . . . . 
... . ... . 
Publication Effective 
.42 MoReg 709 . . . . .April 3, 2017 
Expiration 
. . . . .Jan. 10, 2018 
. . . .April 26, 2018 
. . . . .Feb. 23, 2018 . . . . .June 29, 2018 
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 27, 2018 
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 
. . . . .Dec. 22, 2018 
. . . . .May 1, 2018 . . . .April 20, 2018 
Department of Public Safety Missouri State Highway Patrol 11 CSR 50-2.010 Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Department of Revenue Director of Revenue 12 CSR 10-23.600 Complaint, Inspection, and Disciplinary Process for 
Transportation Network Companies . . . . . . . . . . 12 CSR 10-41.010 Annual Adjusted Rate of Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Department of Social Services Family Support Division 13 CSR 40-2.030 Definitions Relating to Real and Personal Property 13 CSR 40-8.020 Ways of Treating Income and Assets . . . . . . . . . . MO HealthNet Division 
.42 MoReg 1751 
.42 MoReg 1223 .42 MoReg 1752 
.42 MoReg 1057 .42 MoReg 1060 
.42 MoReg 1225 
. . . .Oct. 29, 2017 
. . .Aug. 28, 2017 . . . . .Jan. 1, 2018 
. . . . .July 1, 2017 . . . . .July 1, 2017 
. . . .Aug. 1, 2017 
. . . .Sept. 1, 2017 
. . . . .July 1, 2017 . . . . .July 1, 2017 
. . . . .June 1, 2017 . . . . .June 1, 2017 . . . . .June 2, 2017 
. . . . .June 1, 2017 
. . . . .June 1, 2017 
. . . . .June 1, 2017 . . .Aug. 28, 2017 . . .Aug. 28, 2017 
. . .Aug. 28, 2017 . . .Aug. 28, 2017 . . .Aug. 28, 2017 . . .Aug. 28, 2017 . . .Aug. 28, 2017 
. . . .June 26, 2017 
. . . .Nov. 3, 2017 . . . .Oct. 23, 2017 
13 CSR 70-10.016 13 CSR 70-10.030 13 CSR 70-15.010 13 CSR 70-15.110 
Elected Officials Secretary of State 15 CSR 30-3.010 15 CSR 30-3.020 
15 CSR 30-3.030 15 CSR 30-3.040 
15 CSR 30-3.050 
15 CSR 30-3.100 
15 CSR 30-120.010 15 CSR 30-120.020 15 CSR 30-120.030 
15 CSR 30-120.040 15 CSR 30-120.050 15 CSR 30-120.060 15 CSR 30-120.070 
State Auditor 15 CSR 40-3.170 
Global Per Diem Adjustments to Nursing Facility and HIV Nursing Facility Reimbursement Rates . . . . . . . . . . .. 
Prospective Reimbursement Plan for Nonstate-Operated Facilities for ICF/IID Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
.42 MoReg 1356 Outpatient Hospital Services Reimbursement Methodology 42 MoReg 1061 
Inpatient Hospital Services Reimbursement Plan; Federal Reimbursement Allowance (FRA) . . . . . . . . . . 
Voter Identification Affidavit (Res) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Provisional Ballots and Envelopes for Registered Voters 
under Voter Identification Law . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Procedures for Registered Voters Returning to the Polling 
Place with Identification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Procedures for Identity Verification for Provisional Ballots 
for Registered Voters under Voter Identification Law, 
Counting Approved Ballots, and Recordkeeping . . . .. . Voter Inquiries as to Whether Provisional Ballot for 
Registered Voter was Counted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . Procedures for Obtaining One (1) Copy of Documents 
Needed to Obtain Free Personal Identification for Voting 
.42 MoReg 1063 
.42 MoReg 956 .42 MoReg 957 .42 MoReg 958 
.42 MoReg 958 
.42 MoReg 959 
.42 MoReg 960 .42 MoReg 1297 .42 MoReg 1298 
.42 MoReg 1298 .42 MoReg 1299 .42 MoReg 1299 .42 MoReg 1300 .42 MoReg 1301 
.42 MoReg 1017 
.42 MoReg 1752 .42 MoReg 1639 
Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Application to Register as a Family Trust Company Application to Register as a Foreign Family Trust 
.. . . .. . . 
.. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . 
.. . . 
Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........ Annual Registration Report . . . ....... Records . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....... Examination . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....... Application Process and Forms . . . . . . . . 
Addendum Filed with the Auditor’s Office 
... . .. ... . .. ... . .. ... . .. ... . .. 
... . .. 
Department of Health and Senior Services Office of the Director 19 CSR 10-15.050 Complication Plans for Certain Drug- and Chemically- 
Induced Abortions by Physicians Via Hospitals . . . . . . . 
Division of Community and Public Health 19 CSR 20-1.040 Good Manufacturing Practices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
1861 
Page 1862 Emergency Rule Table 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 

Agency Publication Effective Division of Regulation and Licensure 
Expiration 
. . . . .May 1, 2018 
. . . . . .Jan. 3, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 
. . . . .Feb. 15, 2018 
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 
. . . . .June 29, 2018 
. . . . .June 29, 2018 . . .March 29, 2018 . . .March 29, 2018 . . .March 29, 2018 . . .March 29, 2018 . . . . .May 4, 2018 
. . . . .June 29, 2018 . . . . .May 4, 2018 
19 CSR 30-30.061 19 CSR 30-40.309 
19 CSR 30-40.720 19 CSR 30-81.030 
Complication Plans for Certain Drug- and Chemically- Induced Abortions Via Abortion Facilities . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1754 . . . .Nov. 3, 2017 
Application and Licensure Requirements Standards for the Licensure and Relicensure of Ground Ambulance Services 42 MoReg 709 . . .March 26, 2017 
Stroke Center Designation Application and Review . . . . . .42 MoReg 1302 Evaluation and Assessment Measures for Title XIX 
Recipients and Applicants in Long-Term Care Facilities . .42 MoReg 1137 
. . . Aug. 17, 2017 . . . July 15, 2017 
. . . . .May 9, 2017 
. . . .Aug. 6, 2017 . . . .Aug. 1, 2017 
. . . . .Jan. 1, 2018 
. . . . .Jan. 1, 2018 . . . .Oct. 1, 2017 . . . .Oct. 1, 2017 . . . .Oct. 1, 2017 . . . .Oct. 1, 2017 . . . .Nov. 6, 2017 
. . . . .Jan. 1, 2018 . . . .Nov. 6, 2017 
Department of Insurance, Financial Institutions and Professional Registration State Board of Nursing 20 CSR 2200-4.020 Requirements for Licensure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 861 State Board of Pharmacy 20 CSR 2220-2.650 Standards of Operation for a Class J: Shared Services 
Pharmacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1227 
State Committee of Marital and Family Therapists 20 CSR 2233-1.040 Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1065 
Missouri Consolidated Health Care Plan Health Care Plan 
22 CSR 10-2.030 22 CSR 10-2.089 
22 CSR 10-2.094 22 CSR 10-2.094 22 CSR 10-2.120 22 CSR 10-2.120 22 CSR 10-2.135 22 CSR 10-3.090 22 CSR 10-3.135 
Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1755 Pharmacy Employer Group Waiver Plan for Medicare 
Primary Members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1756 Tobacco-Free Incentive Provisions and Limitations (Res.) . .42 MoReg 1358 Tobacco-Free Incentive Provisions and Limitations . . . . . .42 MoReg 1358 Partnership Incentive Provisions and Limitations (Res.) . . .42 MoReg 1359 Partnership Incentive Provisions and Limitations . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1359 Benefit Package Option . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1756 Pharmacy Benefit Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1757 Benefit Package Option . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1758 

December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
Executive Orders 
MISSOURI REGISTER 

Executive Orders Subject Matter Filed Date Publication 
2017 
17-24 Designates members of the governor’s staff to have supervisory authority over departments, division, and agencies of state government. Nov. 17, 2017 Next Issue 
 
17-23 Advises that state offices will be closed on Friday, November 24, 2017. Nov. 1, 2017 42 MoReg 1640 
17-22 Implements the Emergency Mutual Assistance Compact and activates the state militia to aid the U.S. Virgin Islands in response to Hurricane Maria. Sept. 20, 2017 42 MoReg 1579 
17-21 Governor activates the state militia in anticipation of unrest in the St. Louis region. Sept. 14, 2017 42 MoReg 1411 
17-20 Governor establishes a board of inquiry to review evidence and provide a recommendation on the death sentence for inmate Marcellus Williams. Aug. 22, 2017 42 MoReg 1361 
Proclamation Governor notifies the General Assembly that he is reducing appropriation lines in the fiscal year 2018 budget and permanently reducing appropriation lines in the fiscal year 2017 budget. Aug. 1, 2017 42 MoReg 1307 
17-19 Directs the Department of Health and Senior Services, the Department of Mental Health, the Department of Public Safety, the Department of Natural Resources, and the Department of Conservation to identify, train, equip, and assess law enforcement and emergency responder efforts to combat Missouri’s Opioid Public Health Crisis. July 18, 2017 42 MoReg 1229 
17-18 Directs the Department of Health and Senior Services to create a prescription drug monitoring program. July 17, 2017 42 MoReg 1143 
Amended Proclamation Governor convenes the Second Extra Session of the First Regular Session 
of the Ninety-Ninth General Assembly regarding abortions facilities. July 6, 2017 42 MoReg 1139 
17-17 Creates the Missouri Justice Reinvest Taskforce to analyze Missouri’s corrections system and recommend improvements. June 28, 2017 42 MoReg 1067 
Proclamation Governor convenes the Second Extra Session of the First Regular Session of the Ninety-Ninth General Assembly regarding abortions facilities. June 7, 2017 42 MoReg 1024 
Proclamation Governor convenes the First Extra Session of the First Regular Session of the Ninety-Ninth General Assembly regarding attracting new jobs to Missouri. May18, 2017 42 MoReg 1022 
17-16 Temporarily grants the Director of the Missouri Department of Revenue discretionary authority to adjust certain rules and regulations. May 11, 2017 42 MoReg 909 
17-15 Temporarily grants the Director of the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services discretionary authority to adjust certain rules and regulations. May 8, 2017 42 MoReg 907 
17-14 Temporarily grants the Director of the Missouri Department of Natural Resources discretionary authority to adjust certain environmental rules and regulations. May 4, 2017 42 MoReg 905 
17-13 Activates the state militia in response to severe weather that began on April 28, 2017. April 30, 2017 42 MoReg 865 
17-12 Declares a State of Emergency and activates the Missouri State Emergency Operations Plan due to severe weather beginning on April 28,2017. April 28, 2017 42 MoReg 863 
17-11 Establishes the Boards and Commissions Task Force to recommend comprehensive executive and legislative reform proposals to the governor by October 31, 2017. April 11, 2017 42 MoReg 779 
17-10 Designates members of the governor’s staff to have supervisory authority over departments, division, and agencies of state government. April 7, 2017 42 MoReg 777 
17-09 Establishes parental leave for state employees of the executive branch of Missouri state government and encourages other state officials to adopt comparable policies. March 13, 2017 42 MoReg 429 
17-08 Declares a State of Emergency and activates the Missouri State Emergency Operations Plan due to severe weather that began on March 6. March 7, 2017 42 MoReg 427 
17-07 Establishes the Governor’s Committee for Simple, Fair, and Low Taxes to recommend proposed reforms to the governor by June 30, 2017. January 25, 2017 42 MoReg 315 
17-06 Orders that the Missouri State Emergency Operations Plan be activated. Further orders state agencies to provide assistance to the maximum extent practicable and directs the Adjutant General to call into service such portions of the organized militia as he deems necessary. January 12, 2017 42 MoReg 267 
1863 
Page 1864 
Executive Orders 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
Executive Orders Subject Matter Filed Date Publication 
17-05 Activates the Missouri State Emergency Operation Center due to severe weather expected to begin on Jan. 12, 2017. January 11, 2017 42 MoReg 266 

17-04 Establishes the position of Chief Operating Officer to report directly to the governor and serve as a member of the governor’s executive team. January 11, 2017 42 MoReg 264 

17-03 Orders every state agency to immediately suspend all rulemaking until Feb. 28, 2017, and to complete a review of every regulation under its jurisdiction within the Code of State Regulations by May 31, 2018. January 10, 2017 42 MoReg 261 

17-02 Orders state employees of the executive branch of Missouri state government to follow a specified code of conduct regarding ethics during the Greitens administration. January 9, 2017 42 MoReg 258 

17-01 Rescinds Executive Orders 07-10, 88-26, 98-15, and 05-40 regarding the Governor’s Advisory Council on Physical Fitness and Health and the Missouri State Park Advisory Board. January 6, 2017 42 MoReg 257 

2016 
16-10 Reauthorizes the Governor’s Committee to End Chronic Homelessness until December 31, 2020. December 30, 2016 42 MoReg 159 
 
16-09 Advises that state offices in Cole County will be closed on Monday January 9, 2017. December 23, 2016 42 MoReg 158 

16-08 Advises that state offices will be closed on Friday, November 25, 2016. October 24, 2016 41 MoReg 1659 

16-07 Declares that a State of Emergency exists in the State of Missouri and directs that the Missouri State Emergency Operations Plan be activated as a result of storms that began on May 25, 2016. This order shall terminate on June 26, 2016, unless extended. May 27, 2016 41 MoReg 830 

16-06 Declares that the next Missouri Poet Laureate will be named in June 2016 and directs that a Missouri Poet Laureate be named biennially to serve for two years at the pleasure of the governor. The order also includes qualifications and responsibilities for the post. Additionally the Missouri Poet Laureate Advisory Committee is hereby established. May 27, 2016 41 MoReg 828 

16-05 Directs the Department of Public Safety, with guidance from the Missouri Veteran’s Commission and the Adjutant General of the State of Missouri, to coordinate events with the World War I Centennial Commission that recognize and remember efforts and sacrifices of all Americans during World War I. May 27, 2016 41 MoReg 826 

16-04 Orders all departments, agencies and boards, and commissions, in the Executive Branch subject to the authority of the governor to take all necessary action to amend initial employment applications by removing questions related to an individual’s criminal history unless a criminal history would render an applicant ineligible for the position. April 11, 2016 41 MoReg 658 

16-03 Extends Executive Orders 15-10, 15-11, and 16-02 until February 22, 2016, due to severe weather that began on December 22, 2015. Jan. 22, 2016 41 MoReg 299 

16-02 Gives the director of the Department of Natural Resources the authority to temporarily suspend regulations in the aftermath of severe weather that began on December 22, 2015. Jan. 6, 2016 41 MoReg 235 

16-01 Designates members of the governor’s staff to have supervisory authority over certain departments, divisions, and agencies. Jan. 4, 2016 41 MoReg 153 

December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
Index 
MISSOURI REGISTER 

The rule number and the MoReg publication date follow each entry to this index. 
ACCOUNTANCY, MISSOURI STATE BOARD OF 
fees; 20 CSR 2010-2.160; 12/1/17 
ACUPUNCTURIST ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
fees; 20 CSR 2015-1.030; 2/1/17 
ADMINISTRATION, OFFICE OF 
definition of terms; 1 CSR 20-5.015; 11/1/16 leaves of absence; 1 CSR 20-5.020; 11/1/16 state official’s salary compensation schedule; 1 CSR 10; 12/15/17 
AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF 
Missouri agricultural and small business development authority description of operation, definitions, method of distribution 
and repayment of tax credits; 2 CSR 100-12.010; 
7/17/17, 11/1/17 Missouri dairy scholars program; 2 CSR 100-11.020; 5/2/16, 
8/15/16 
ARCHITECTS, PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERS, PROFES- SIONAL LAND SURVEYORS, AND PROFESSIONAL LAND- SCAPE ARCHITECTS, MISSOURI BOARD FOR admission to examination–architects; 20 CSR 2030-5.050; 12/15/17 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
reporting forms; 15 CSR 60-10.030; 7/3/17, 11/1/17 
AUDITOR, STATE 
addendum filed with the auditor’s office; 15 CSR 40-3.170; 7/17/17, 11/1/17 
contents of audit report; 15 CSR 40-4.030; 6/15/17, 10/2/17 requirements for districts; 15 CSR 40-4.010; 6/15/17, 10/2/17 scope of audit; 15 CSR 40-4.040; 6/15/17, 10/2/17 standards for auditing and financial reporting; 15 CSR 40-4.020; 
6/15/17, 10/2/17 
CERTIFICATE OF NEED PROGRAM 
application review schedule; 19 CSR 60-50; 10/2/17, 11/1/17, 11/15/17, 12/1/17 
CHIROPRACTIC EXAMINERS, STATE BOARD OF 
fees; 20 CSR 2070-2.090; 11/1/16 
CLEAN WATER COMMISSION 
water quality standards; 10 CSR 20-7.031; 10/16/17 
CONSERVATION, DEPARTMENT OF 
bullfrogs and green frogs; 3 CSR 10-12.115; 10/2/17 commercial deer processing: permit, privileges, requirements; 3 
CORRECTIONS, DEPARTMENT OF 
conditions of lifetime supervision; 14 CSR 80-3.020; 12/1/17 Notice of Periodic Rule Review ;Title 14; 7/3/17 
DENTAL BOARD, MISSOURI 
definitions; 20 CSR 2110-2.001; 8/1/17. 11/15/17 dental assistants; 20 CSR 2110-2.120; 7/3/17, 10/16/17 
DRIVER LICENSE BUREAU 
drivers license classes; 12 CSR 10-24.200; 9/1/17, 12/1/17 
ELECTIONS 
procedures for identity verification for provisional ballots for regis- ter voters under voter identification law, counting approved ballots, and recordkeeping; 15 CSR 30-3.040; 7/3/17, 10/16/17 
procedures for obtaining one (1) copy of documents needed to obtain free personal identification for voting; 15 CSR 30- 3.100; 7/3/17, 10/16/17 
procedures for registered voters returning to the polling place with identification; 15 CSR 30-3.030; 7/3/17, 10/16/17 
provisional ballots and envelopes for registered voters under voter identification law; 15 CSR 30-3.020; 7/3/17, 10/16/17 voter identification affidavit; 15 CSR 30-3.010; 7/3/17, 10/16/17 
voter inquiries as to whether provisional ballot for registered voter was counted; 15 CSR 30-3.050; 7/3/17, 10/16/17 
ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPART- MENT OF administrative policies of the state schools for severely disabled 
regarding approved private agencies; 5 CSR 20-300.150; 
8/1/17, 12/1/17 certification requirements for initial student services certificate; 
5 CSR 20-400.640; 11/1/17 Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, Part B; 5 CSR 20- 
300.110; 12/1/17 persistently dangerous schools; 5 CSR 20-100.210; 8/1/17, 12/1/17 reporting requirements; 5 CSR 20-500.310; 12/1/17 standards for the determination of eligible training providers and 
administration of reimbursement for the education of per- sons under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 and other employment training funding sources contracting with the State Board of Education; 5 CSR 20-500.340; 12/1/17 
ENERGY, DIVISION OF 
definitions and general provisions–membership; 4 CSR 340-6.010; 12/15/16 
energy set-aside fund ; 4 CSR 340-2; 5/1/17 
EXECUTIVE ORDERS 
advises that state office’s will be closed on Friday, November 24, 2017; 17-23; 11/15/17 
establishes a board of inquiry to review evidence and provide a recommendation on the death sentence of Marcellus Williams; 17-20; 10/2/17 
governor activates the state militia in anticipation of unrest in the St. Louis region; 17-21; 10/16/17 
implements the Emergency Mutual Assistance Compact and acti- vates the state militia to aid the U.S. Virgin Islands in response to Hurricane Maria; 17-22; 11/1/17 
FAMILY SUPPORT DIVISION 
definitions relating to institutions; 13 CSR 40-2.080; 11/1/17 definitions relating to real and personal property; 13 CSR 40- 
2.030; 8/1/17, 12/1/17 
CSR 10-10.744; 10/2/17 
archery hunting season; 3 CSR 10-7.432; 7/3/17, 10/2/17 hunting seasons: general provisions; 3 CSR 10-7.431; 10/2/17 resident archery antlerless deer hunting permit; 3 CSR 10- 
5.425; 10/2/17 definitions; 3 CSR 10-20.805; 10/2/17 
field trial permit; 3 CSR 10-9.625; 10/2/17 fishing 
daily and possession limits; 3 CSR 10-12.140; 10/2/17 length limits; 3 CSR 10-12.145; 10/3/16, 10/2/17 methods; 3 CSR 10-12.135; 10/2/17 methods and hours; 3 CSR 10-11.205; 10/2/17 
general prohibition; applications; 3 CSR 10-9.110; 10/2/17 hunting and trapping; 3 CSR 10-12.125; 10/2/17 hunting, general provisions, and seasons; 3 CSR 10-11.180; 10/2/17 monetary values established for fish and wildlife; 3 CSR 10-3.010; 
10/2/17 record keeping and reporting required; commercial fishermen; 3 CSR 
10-10.727; 10/2/17 taxidermy; tanning: permits, privileges, requirements; 3 CSR 10- 
10.767; 10/2/17 turkeys: seasons, methods, limits; 3 CSR 10-7.455; 7/3/17, 10/2/17 use of boats and motors; 3 CSR 10-12.110; 10/2/17 use of traps; 3 CSR 10-8.510; 10/2/17 
deer 
1865 
  
Page 1866 
Index 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 

payments for vision examination; 13 CSR 40-91.040; 12/15/17 payment to school districts for special education services for chil- 
dren in the custody of the Division of Family Services and placed in residential treatment facilities; 13 CSR 40- 34.070; 11/1/17 
ways of treating income and assets; 13 CSR 40-8.020; 8/1/17, 12/1/17 
FAMILY TRUST COMPANY 
annual registration report; 15 CSR 30-120.040; 9/15/17 application process and forms; 15 CSR 30-120.070; 9/15/17 application to register as a family trust company; 15 CSR 30- 
120.020; 9/15/17 application to register as a foreign family trust company; 15 CSR 
30-120.030; 9/15/17 definitions; 15 CSR 30-120.010; 9/15/17 examination; 15 CSR 30-120.060; 9/15/17 records; 15 CSR 30-120.050; 9/15/17 
FERTILIZER CONTROL BOARD 
general organization; 6 CSR 255-1.010; 7/3/17, 10/16/17 permit fee; 6 CSR 255-10.020; 7/3/17, 10/16/17 tonnage fee; 6 CSR 255-10.010; 7/3/17, 10/16/17 
GAMING COMMISSION, MISSOURI 
licenses, restrictions on licenses, licensing authority of the execu- tive director, and other definitions; 11 CSR 45-4.020; 11/1/16 
minimum internal control standards (MICS)–Chapter T; 11 CSR 45-9.120; 11/1/16 
policies; 11 CSR 45-5.053; 11/1/16 
HEALTH AND SENIOR SERVICES 
community and public health, division of good manufacturing practices; 19 CSR 20-1.040; 11/15/17 
maternal, child and family health, division of critical congenital heart disease screening for newborns; 
19 CSR 40-12.010; 5/1/17, 10/2/17 office of the director 
complication plans for certain drug- and chemically-induced abortions by physicians via hospitals; 19 CSR 10- 15.050; 12/1/17 
complication report for post-abortion care; 19 CSR 10-15.020; 12/1/17 
content and filing of tissue report; 19 CSR 10-15.030; 12/1/17 induced termination of pregnancy consent form; 19 CSR 10- 
15.040; 12/1/17 reporting of healthcare-associated infection rates by hospitals, 
ambulatory surgical centers, and abortion facilities; 
19 CSR 10-33.050; 12/1/17 reporting patient abstract data by hospitals, ambulatory surgical 
centers, and abortion facilities; 19 CSR 10-33.010; 
12/1/17 report of induced termination of pregnancy; 19 CSR 10-15.010; 
12/1/17 regulation and licensure 
application and licensure requirements standards for the licen- sure and relicensure of ground ambulance services; 19 CSR 30-40.309; 5/1/17, 10/2/17 
complication plans for certain drug- and chemically-induced abortions via abortion facilities; 19 CSR 30-30.061; 12/1/17 
definitions and procedures for licensing abortion facilities; 19 CSR 30-30.050; 12/1/17 
evaluation and assessment measures for Title XIX recipients and applicants in long term care facilities; 19 CSR 30-81.030; 8/15/17 
physical standards for abortion facilities; 19 CSR 30-30.070; 12/1/17 
reasons and methods the department can use to take adminis- trative licensure actions; 19 CSR 30-40.365; 9/15/17 
standards for the operation of abortion facilities; 19 CSR 30- 30.060; 12/1/17 
stroke center designation application and review; 19 CSR 30- 40.720; 9/15/17 
HIGHWAY PATROL, MISSOURI STATE 
definitions; 11 CSR 50-2.010; 12/1/17 
HIGHWAYS AND TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION, MISSOURI administrative review of denial of eligibility or amount of relocation 
assistance benefits; 7 CSR 10-4.010; 12/15/17 administrative review of notices to remove outdoor advertising and 
to terminate nonconforming signs; 7 CSR 10-6.090; 
10/16/17 administration 
7 CSR 10-17.030; 11/15/17 
7 CSR 10-27.040; 11/15/17 application process; 7 CSR 10-12.020; 11/15/17 causes for disqualification; 7 CSR 10-18.020; 11/15/17 cutting and trimming of vegetation on right-of-way; 7 CSR 10- 
6.085; 10/16/17 description, organization, and information; 7 CSR 10-1.010; 
11/15/17 definitions; 7 CSR 10-17.020; 11/15/17 directional and other official signs; 7 CSR 10-6.020 10/17/16 distribution of funds appropriated to the Missouri elderly and 
handicapped transportation assistance program; 7 CSR 10- 
7.010; 11/15/17 eligibility; 7 CSR 10-27.020; 11/15/17 licensing of junkyards; 7 CSR 10-5.010; 10/16/17 location and relocation of private lines on state highways; 
7 CSR 10-3.030; 12/15/17 location and relocation of utility facilities on state highways; 
7 CSR 10-3.010; 12/15/17 logo signing; 7 CSR 10-17.050; 11/15/17 general program requirements; 7 CSR 10-19.010; 1/17/17 nomination review process; 7 CSR 10-12.030; 11/15/17 nonconforming signs; 7 CSR 10-6.060; 10/16/17 on-premises signs; 7 CSR 10-6.030; 10/16/17 outdoor advertising beyond six hundred sixty feet (660’) of the right- 
of-way; 7 CSR 10-6.050; 10/16/17 outdoor advertising in zoned and unzoned commercial and 
industrial areas; 7 CSR 10-6.040; 10/16/17 permits for outdoor advertising; 7 CSR 10-6.070; 10/16/17 relocation assistance program; 7 CSR 10-4.020; 12/15/17 removal of outdoor advertising without compensation; 7 CSR 
10-6.080; 10/16/17 removal or concealment of outdoor advertising pending judicial 
review; 7 CSR 10-6.100; 10/16/17 requirements for tourist oriented directional signing; 7 CSR 10- 
17.040; 11/15/17 scenic byways; 7 CSR 10-12.010; 11/15/17 traffic generators; 7 CSR 10-17.060; 11/15/17 utility relocation hearings; 7 CSR 10-3.020; 12/15/17 
INSURANCE 
applied behavior analysis maximum benefit; 20 CSR; 3/1/17 construction claims binding arbitration cap; 20 CSR; 12/15/17 non-economic damages in medical malpractice cap; 20 CSR; 
2/16/16 sovereign immunity limits; 20 CSR; 12/15/17 state legal expense fund; 20 CSR; 12/15/17 
LAND SURVEY 
accuracy standards for property boundary surveys; 10 CSR 30- 2.040; 11/1/17 
application of standards; 10 CSR 30-2.010; 11/1/17 approved monumentation; 10 CSR 30-2.060; 11/1/17 definitions; 10 CSR 30-2.020; 11/1/17 detail requirements for condominium surveys; 10 CSR 30-2.100; 
11/1/17 detail requirements for original surveys; 10 CSR 30-2.080; 11/1/17 detail requirements for resurveys; 10 CSR 30-2.070; 11/1/17 detail requirements for subdivision surveys; 10 CSR 30-2.090; 
11/1/17 general land surveying requirements; 10 CSR 30-2.030; 11/1/17 
 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 
 
Missouri Register 
Page 1867 

general organization; 10 CSR 30-1.010; 11/1/17 location of improvements and easements; 10 CSR 30-2.110; 11/1/17 use of Missouri Coordinate System, 1983; 10 CSR 30-2.050; 
11/1/17 
MARITAL AND FAMILY THERAPISTS, STATE COMMIT- TEE OF fees; 20 CSR 2233-1.040; 8/1/17, 11/15/17 
MEDICAID AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE UNIT, MISSOURI 
electronic signatures for MO HealthNet Program; 13 CSR 65- 3.050; 5/15/17, 10/16/17 
MENTAL HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF 
residential rate setting; 9 CSR 45-4.010; 12/1/17 
MISSOURI CONSOLIDATED HEALTH CARE PLAN 
public entity membership benefit package option; 22 CSR 10-3.135; 12/1/17 pharmacy benefit summary; 22 CSR 10-3.090; 12/1/17 
state membership benefit package option; 22 CSR 10-2.135; 12/1/17 contributions; 22 CSR 10-2.030; 12/1/17 partnership incentive provisions and limitations; 22 CSR 10- 
2.120; 10/2/17 pharmacy employer group waiver plan for medicare primary 
members; 22 CSR 10-2.089; 12/1/17 tobacco-free incentive provisions and limitations; 22 CSR 10- 
2.094; 10/2/17 
MO HEALTHNET 
enhancement pools; 13 CSR 70-10.150; 12/15/17 federal reimbursement allowance (FRA); 13 CSR 70-15.110; 
8/1/17, 12/1/17 global per diem adjustments to nursing facility and HIV nursing 
facility reimbursement rates; 13 CSR 70-10.016; 9/1/17, 
12/15/17 inpatient hospital services reimbursement plan; outpatient hospital 
services reimbursement methodology; 13 CSR 70-15.010; 8/1/17, 12/1/17 
medicaid primary and prenatal care clinic program; 13 CSR 70- 96.010; 12/15/17 
mental health residential personal care program; 13 CSR 70- 91.020; 12/15/17 
procedures for evaluation of appropriate inpatient hospital admissions and continued days of stay; 13 CSR 70- 15.090; 12/15/17 
prospective reimbursement plan for nonstate-operated facilities for ICF/IID services; 13 CSR 70-10.030; 10/2/17 
sanctions for false or fraudulent claims for MO HealthNet services; 13 CSR 70-3.030; 11/1/17 
MOTOR VEHICLE 
complaint, inspection, and disciplinary process for transportation network companies; 12 CSR 10-23.600; 8/15/17, 9/1/17, 11/15/17 
NURSING, STATE BOARD OF 
board composition; 20 CSR 2200-1.020; 12/15/17 confidentiality; 20 CSR 2200-4.028; 11/15/17 definitions 20 CSR 2200-4.025; 11/15/17 general organization; 20 CSR 2200-1.010; 12/15/17 membership and organization; 20 CSR 2200-4.026; 11/15/17 MNIT administrator; 20 CSR 2200-4.029; 11/15/17 
MNIT board of directors/contractor duties; 20 CSR 2200-4.027; 11/15/17 
nurse licensure compact; 20 CSR 2200-4.022; 11/15/17 requirements for intravenous therapy administration certification; 20 
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY, MISSOURI BOARD OF 
continuing competency requirements; 20 CSR 2205-5.010; 12/15/17 
PEACE OFFICER STANDARDS AND TRAINING PROGRAM 
minimum standards for continuing education training; 11 CSR 75- 15.020; 7/17/17, 11/1/17 
PHARMACY, STATE BOARD OF 
general fees; 20 CSR 2220-4.010; 5/1/17, 8/15/17 nonresident pharmacies; 20 CSR 2220-2.025; 11/15/17 standards of operation for a Class J: shared services pharmacy; 20 
CSR 2220-2.650; 9/1/17, 12/15/17 
PROPANE SAFETY COMMISSION, MISSOURI 
fiscal year July 1, 2016–June 30, 2017 budget plan; 2 CSR 90; 8/15/17 
PUBLIC SAFETY, DEPARTMENT OF 
appeals procedure and time limits for victims of crime act grant applications; 11 CSR 30-16.020; 2/1/17 
approval; 11 CSR 30-3.010; 11/15/16 eligibility criteria and application procedures for VOCA grants pro- 
gram; 11 CSR 30-16.010; 2/1/17 
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
administration and enforcement 4 CSR 240-120.031; 8/15/17 4 CSR 240-121.020; 8/15/17 4 CSR 240-123.020; 8/15/17 4 CSR 240-124.020; 8/15/17 
anchoring standards; 4 CSR 240-124.045; 8/15/17 approval of manufacturing programs; 4 CSR 240-123.040; 8/15/17 code; 4 CSR 240-120.100; 8/15/17 code for modular units; 4 CSR 240-123.080; 8/15/17 commission approval of manufactured home tie-down systems; 
4 CSR 240-124.040; 8/15/17 commission reports; 4 CSR 240-120.080; 8/15/17 complaints; 4 CSR 240-124.060; 8/15/17 complaints and review of manager action; 4 CSR 240-121.060; 
8/15/17 complaints and review of manager action(s); 4 CSR 240-120.110; 
8/15/17 complaints and review of manager’s action(s); 4 CSR 240-123.090; 
8/15/17 consumer recovery fund; 4 CSR 240-126.020; 8/15/17 criteria for good moral character for registration of manufactured 
home dealers; 4 CSR 240-120.120; 8/15/17 definitions 
4 CSR 240-120.011; 8/15/17 4 CSR 240-121.010; 8/15/17 4 CSR 240-123.010; 8/15/17 4 CSR 240-124.010; 8/15/17 4 CSR 240-125.010; 8/15/17 4 CSR 240-126.010; 8/15/17 4 CSR 240-127.010; 8/15/17 
determination of applicable manufactured home systems standards; 4 CSR 240-124.030; 8/15/17 
dispute resolution; 4 CSR 240-125.090; 8/15/17 general provisions; 4 CSR 240-125.020; 8/15/17 electric utility demand-side programs filing and submission require- 
ments; 4 CSR 240-3.164; 9/1/17 electric utility demand-side programs investment mechanisms filing 
and submission requirements; 4 CSR 240-3.163; 9/1/17 inspection and approval of alterations; 4 CSR 240-120.090; 
8/15/17 inspection of manufacturer’s books, records, inventory and premis- 
es; 4 CSR 240-123.050; 8/15/17 inspection of dealer books, records, inventory and premises; 4 CSR 
CSR 2200-6.060; 9/15/17 
240-121.040; 8/15/17 
  
Page 1868 
Index 
December 15, 2017 Vol. 42, No. 24 

inspection of dealer’s books, records, inventory and premises; 4 CSR 240-123.060; 8/15/17 
inspections; 4 CSR 240-120.060; 8/15/17 installation decals; 4 CSR 240-125.070; 8/15/17 licensing; 4 CSR 240-125.060; 8/15/17 limited use installer license; 4 CSR 240-125.050; 8/15/17 inspection of pre-owned mobile homes rented, leased or sold or 
offered for rent, lease or sale by persons other than deal- 
ers; 4 CSR 240-121.050; 8/15/17 manufactured home dealer setup responsibilities; 4 CSR 240- 
120.065; 8/15/17 manufactured home installer license; 4 CSR 125.040; 8/15/17 manufacturers and dealer reports; 4 CSR 240-120.070; 8/15/17 modular unit dealer or selling agent setup responsibilities; 4 CSR 
240-123.065; 8/15/17 monthly report requirement for registered manufactured home 
dealers 
4 CSR 240-120.130; 8/15/17 
4 CSR 240-121.180; 8/15/17 monthly report requirement for registered modular unit dealers; 
4 CSR 240-123.070; 8/15/17 new manufactured home manufacturer’s inspection fee; 4 CSR 120- 
140; 8/15/17 re-inspection and re-inspection fee 
4 CSR 240-120.085; 8/15/17 
4 CSR 240-123.095; 8/15/17 safety standards for electrical corporations, telecommunications 
companies, and rural electric cooperatives; 4 CSR 240- 18.010; 9/1/17 
seals 4 CSR 240-121.030; 8/15/17 4 CSR 240-123.030; 8/15/17 
small utility rate case procedure; 4 CSR 240-3.050; 11/15/17 staff assisted rate case procedure; 4 CSR 240-10.075; 11/15/17 standards; 4 CSR 240-124.50; 8/15/17 
REAL ESTATE APPRAISERS 
appraisal management company application requirements; 20 CSR 2245-10.010; 12/15/17 
appraisal management company standards of practice; 20 CSR 2245-10.020; 12/15/17 
appraiser’s assignment log; 20 CSR 2245-2.050; 12/15/17 renewal; 20 CSR 2245-10.030; 12/15/17 
RETIREMENT SYSTEMS 
additional provisions; 16 CSR 50-20.120; 8/1/17, 11/15/17 cost of living adjustment; 16 CSR 50-2.140; 8/1/17, 11/15/17 definitions; 16 CSR 50-2.010; 11/1/17 eligibility and participation; 16 CSR 50-2.030; 11/1/17 public school retirement system of Missouri, the 
service retirement 16 CSR 10-5.010; 10/16/17 16 CSR 10-6.060; 10/16/17 
SOCIAL WORKERS, STATE COMMITTEE FOR 
application for licensure as a social worker; 20 CSR 2263-2.050; 11/1/17 
client relationships; 20 CSR 2263-3.040; 11/1/17 continuing education; 20 CSR 2263-2.082; 11/1/17 licensure by reciprocity; 20 CSR 2263-2.060; 11/1/17 provisional licenses; 20 CSR 2263-2.045; 9/15/17 reexamination; 20 CSR 2263-2.051; 11/1/17 restoration of license; 20 CSR 2263-2.085; 11/1/17 
TAX 
annual adjusted rate of interest; 12 CSR 10-41.010; 12/1/17 
TRANSPORTATION, DEPARTMENT OF 
motor carrier and railroad safety 
accidents and hazards, compliance with Federal Transit Administration (FTA) notification; 7 CSR 265-9.150; 11/15/17 
applicability of chapter; definitions; 7 CSR 265-9.010; 11/15/17 
dedicated rail fixed guideway telephone; 7 CSR 265-9.140; 11/15/17 
drug and alcohol testing; 7 CSR 265-9.060; 11/15/17 hours of service; 7 CSR 265-9.070; 11/15/17 rail-highway grade crossing construction and maintenance; 7 
CSR 265-9.100; 11/15/17 rail-highway grade crossing warning devices; 7 CSR 265- 
9.110; 11/15/17 safety reviews shall be in accordance with Federal Transit 
Administration (FTA) standards; 7 CSR 265-9.040; 
11/15/17 signs; 7 CSR 265-9.050; 11/15/17 
state safety oversight agency authorities and requirements; 7 CSR 265-9.020; 11/15/17 
visual obstructions at public grade crossings; 7 CSR 265- 9.130; 11/15/17 
walkways; 7 CSR 265-9.090; 11/15/17 traffic and highway safety division 
approval procedure; 7 CSR 60-2.020; 11/15/16 breath alcohol ignition interlock device security; 7 CSR 60- 
2.050; 11/15/16 definitions; 7 CSR 60-2.010; 11/15/16 responsibilities of authorized service providers; 7 CSR 60- 
2.040; 11/15/16 standards and specifications; 7 CSR 60-2.030; 11/15/16 suspension or revocation of approval of a device; 7 CSR 60- 
2.060; 1/15/16 
To Subscribe to the Missouri Register 
SALUS POPULI SUPREMA LEX ESTO “The welfare of the people shall be the supreme law.” 
John R. Ashcroft Secretary of State 
MISSOURI REGISTER 
 
Contact us at: phone: (573) 751-4015 or email: rules@sos.mo.gov 
ORDER FORM 
Enclosed is my check for $56 as payment in advance for one year of the Missouri Register Please start my subscription with the _________________________________________issue. 
Please make checks payable to: Secretary of State or alternatively call us to charge your credit card. 

Mail to: John R. Ashcroft Secretary of State 
Administrative Rules Division PO Box 1767 Jefferson City, MO 65102 
Name or Firm (Please Type or Print) Address 
Attn: 
  
City 
State 
Zip Code 
John R. Ashcroft 
Secretary of State PO Box 1767 Jefferson City, MO 65102 
Periodical Postage Paid at Jefferson City, MO 

Administrative Rules Contact Information 
Curtis W. Treat, Editor-in-Chief 
(573) 751-2022 curtis.treat@sos.mo.gov 
Vonne Kilbourn, Editor 
(573) 751-1818 vonne.kilbourn@sos.mo.gov 
Jacqueline D. White, Publication Specialist 
(573) 526-1259 jacqueline.white@sos.mo.gov 
Amanda McKay, Managing Editor 
(573) 522-2593 amanda.mckay@sos.mo.gov 
Marty Spann, Associate Editor 
(573) 522-2196 martha.spann@sos.mo.gov 
Alisha Dudenhoeffer, Administrative Aide 
(573) 751-4015 alisha.dudenhoeffer@sos.mo.gov 
General Inquiries 
(573) 751-4015 rules@sos.mo.gov 
12/15/17 
 
