Volume 43, Number 3 Pages 119–246
February 1, 2018
SALUS POPULI SUPREMA LEX ESTO “The welfare of the people shall be the supreme law.”
John R. Ashcroft Secretary of State
MISSOURI REGISTER
  
 The Missouri Register is an official publication of the state of Missouri, under the authority granted to the secretary of state by sections 536.015 and 536.033, RSMo 2016. Reproduction of rules is allowed; however, no reproduction shall bear the name Missouri Register or “official” without the express per- mission of the secretary of state.
The Missouri Register is published semi-monthly by SECRETARY OF STATE
John R. Ashcroft
Administrative Rules Division James C. Kirkpatrick State Information Center
600 W. Main Jefferson City, MO 65101 (573) 751-4015
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF CURTIS W. TREAT
· MANAGING EDITOR
AMANDA MCKAY
· EDITOR
VONNE KILBOURN
· ASSOCIATE EDITOR
MARTY SPANN
· PUBLICATION SPECIALIST
JACQUELINE D. WHITE
· ADMINISTRATIVE AIDE
ALISHA DUDENHOEFFER
ISSN 0149-2942, USPS 320-630; periodical postage paid at Jefferson City, MO Subscription fee: $56.00 per year
POSTMASTER: Send change of address notices and undelivered copies to:
MISSOURI REGISTER Office of the Secretary of State Administrative Rules Division PO Box 1767 Jefferson City, MO 65102
The Missouri Register and Code of State Regulations (CSR) are available on the Internet. The Register address is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/moreg/moreg and the CSR is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/csr/csr. These websites contain rulemakings and regu- lations as they appear in the paper copies of the Registers and CSR. The Administrative Rules Division may be contacted by email at rules@sos.mo.gov.
The secretary of state’s office makes every effort to provide program accessibility to all citizens without regard to disability. If you desire this publication in alternate form because of a disability, please contact the Division of Administrative Rules, PO Box 1767, Jefferson City, MO 65102, (573) 751-4015. Hearing impaired citizens should contact the director through Missouri relay, (800) 735-2966.
  
  MISSOURI REGISTER
    February 1, 2018
 PROPOSED RULES
Department of Higher Education
Commissioner of Higher Education
Department of Natural Resources
SOURCE GUIDES
Director’s Office . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clean Water Commission . . . . . . . .
Dam and Reservoir Safety Council . .
Division of Geology and Land Survey
Hazardous Substance Emergency Response Office
Oil and Gas Council . . . . . . . . . . . Safe Drinking Water Commission . . Soil and Water Districts Commission Solid Waste Management . . . . . . . . State Parks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Department of Revenue
Director of Revenue . . . . . . . . . . .
State Tax Commission . . . . . . . . .
State Lottery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ORDERS OF RULEMAKING
Department of Economic Development
Public Service Commission . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .176
Retirement Systems
The Public School Retirement System of Missouri . . . . . .221 DISSOLUTIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .222
. .
. . . . . . .
. . . . . . .123
. . . . . . .134 . . . . . . .134 . . . . . . .137 . . . . . . .138
. . . . . .138 . . . . . . .139 . . . . . . .139 . . . . . . .140 . . . . . . .146 . . . . . . .148
. . . . . . .150 . . . . . . .159 . . . . . . .161
RULE CHANGES SINCE UPDATE
EMERGENCY RULES IN EFFECT
EXECUTIVE ORDERS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .236
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... .
REGISTER INDEX
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .238
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
IN THIS ISSUE:
Vol. 43 No. 3 Pages 119–246
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .227 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .234
   Register Filing Deadlines
October 2, 2017 October 16, 2017
November 1, 2017 November 15, 2017
December 1, 2017 December 15, 2017
January 2, 2018 January 16, 2018
February 1, 2018 February 15, 2018
March 1, 2018 March 15, 2018
April 2, 2018 April 16, 2018
May 1, 2018 May 15, 2018
June 1, 2018 June 15, 2018
Register Publication Date
November 1, 2017 November 15, 2017
December 1, 2017 December 15, 2017
January 2, 2018 January 16, 2018
February 1, 2018 February 15, 2018
March 1, 2018 March 15, 2018
April 2, 2018 April 16, 2018
May 1, 2018 May 15, 2018
June 1, 2018 June 15, 2018
July 2, 2018 July 16, 2018
Code Publication Date
November 30, 2017 November 30, 2017
December 31, 2017 December 31, 2017
January 29, 2018 January 29, 2018
February 28, 2018 February 28, 2018
March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018
April 30, 2018 April 30, 2018
May 31, 2018 May 31, 2018
June 30, 2018 June 30, 2018
July 31, 2018 July 31, 2018
Code Effective Date
December 30, 2017 December 30, 2017
January 30, 2018 January 30, 2018
February 28, 2018 February 28, 2018
March 30, 2018 March 30, 2018
April 30, 2018 April 30, 2018
May 30, 2018 May 30, 2018
June 30, 2018 June 30, 2018
July 30, 2018 July 30, 2018
August 30, 2018 August 30, 2018
Documents will be accepted for filing on all regular workdays from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. We encourage early filings to facilitate the timely publication of the Missouri Register. Orders of Rulemaking appearing in the Missouri Register will be published in the Code of State Regulations and become effective as listed in the chart above. Advance notice of large volume filings will facilitate their timely publication. We reserve the right to change the schedule due to special circumstances. Please check the latest publication to verify that no changes have been made in this schedule. To review the entire year’s schedule, please check out the website at www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/pubsched.
 
 HOW TO CITE RULES AND RSMO
RULES
The rules are codified in the Code of State Regulations in this system–
Title Division Chapter Rule
3 CSR 10- 4 .115 Department Code of Agency General area Specific area
State Division regulated regulated Regulations
and should be cited in this manner: 3 CSR 10-4.115.
Each department of state government is assigned a title. Each agency or division in the department is assigned a division number. The agency then groups its rules into general subject matter areas called chapters and specific areas called rules. Within a rule, the first breakdown is called a section and is designated as (1). Subsection is (A) with further breakdown into paragraphs 1., subparagraphs A., parts (I), subparts (a), items I. and subitems a.
The rule is properly cited by using the full citation, for example, 3 CSR 10-4.115 NOT Rule 10-4.115. Citations of RSMo are to the Missouri Revised Statutes as of the date indicated.
Code and Register on the Internet
The Code of State Regulations and Missouri Register are available on the Internet.
The Code address is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/csr/csr
The Register address is www.sos.mo.gov/adrules/moreg/moreg
These websites contain rulemakings and regulations as they appear in the Code and Registers.
  
 February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
Proposed Rules
MISSOURI REGISTER
  Under this heading will appear the text of proposed rules and changes. The notice of proposed rulemaking is required to contain an explanation of any new rule or any change in an existing rule and the reasons therefor. This is set out in the Purpose section with each rule. Also required is a citation to the legal authority to make rules. This appears fol- lowing the text of the rule, after the word “Authority.” Entirely new rules are printed without any special symbol-
ogy under the heading of proposed rule. If an existing rule is to be amended or rescinded, it will have a heading of proposed amendment or proposed rescission. Rules which are proposed to be amended will have new matter printed in boldface type and matter to be deleted placed in brackets. An important function of the Missouri Register is to solicit
and encourage public participation in the rulemaking process. The law provides that for every proposed rule, amendment, or rescission there must be a notice that anyone may comment on the proposed action. This comment may take different forms.
If an agency is required by statute to hold a public hearing
before making any new rules, then a Notice of Public Hearing will appear following the text of the rule. Hearing dates must be at least thirty (30) days after publication of the notice in the Missouri Register. If no hearing is planned or required, the agency must give a Notice to Submit Comments. This allows anyone to file statements in support of or in opposition to the proposed action with the agency within a specified time, no less than thirty (30) days after pub- lication of the notice in the Missouri Register.
An agency may hold a public hearing on a rule even though not required by law to hold one. If an agency allows comments to be received following the hearing date, the close of comments date will be used as the beginning day in the ninety- (90-) day-count necessary for the filing of the order of rulemaking.
If an agency decides to hold a public hearing after planning not to, it must withdraw the earlier notice and file a new notice of proposed rulemaking and schedule a hearing for a date not less than thirty (30) days from the date of publication of the new notice.
 Proposed Amendment Text Reminder:
Boldface text indicates new matter.
[Bracketed text indicates matter being deleted.]
Title 6—DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION Division 10—Commissioner of Higher Education Chapter 4—Submission of Academic Information, Data and New Programs
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
6 CSR 10-4.010 Academic Program Approval. The department is deleting sections (1) and (6), amending sections (2)–(5) and (7)–(10), and renumbering as necessary.
PURPOSE: This amendment sets forth the revised evaluation criteria and procedures for submitting new degree and certificate programs and program changes by public and independent institutions of high- er education in Missouri to the Coordinating Board for Higher Education.
[(1) Policy.
(A) In light of its responsibilities imposed and assigned by sections 173.005.2(1) and (7) and 173.030(1) and (2), RSMo, the Coordinating Board for Higher Education (CBHE) has determined that it can and should discharge its obliga- tions by requiring institutions of higher education in the state to submit to it information concerning all new degree and certificate programs. The coordinating board will review all new program proposals and, in the case of public institu- tions, will approve or disapprove them. In the case of inde- pendent institutions, the coordinating board will review the programs and make pertinent recommendations. Although these recommendations are not binding on independent institutions, submission of the proposals is required of inde- pendent institutions in order to address the issues of dupli- cation and access at the postsecondary level as well as to enable the coordinating board to fulfill its statutory obliga- tions. Furthermore, compliance with this policy is one (1) of the conditions for the eligibility of independent institutions for participation in the Missouri student grant program.
(B) Sections of this rule that do not apply to independent institutions are those dealing with cooperative intercampus degree programs, staff advisory comments, use of consul- tants, performance reviews for new programs, joint review with CBHE and the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education and program finances.]
[(2)](1) Definitions.
(A) [Certificate—a prescribed course of study which con-
fers an award other than a formal degree.] CBHE-approved mission—a description of the public institution’s programs, audi- ences served, level and type of degrees offered, or other distin- guishing factors, which the CBHE has reviewed and approved.
(B) [CIP Taxonomy—the six-digit code number assigned to academic program types by the Center for Educational Statistics of the United States Department of Education. CIP categories are described in the United States Department of Education publication, A Classification of Instructional Programs (CIP).] CBHE-approved off-site location—locations other than the main campus (for universities) or taxing district (for community colleges) that the CBHE has reviewed and approved. The department maintains an official inventory of approved off-site locations.
(C) CBHE-approved service region—a geographic region for which a public institution has responsibility for meeting the edu- cational needs of its residents.
(D) Certificate program—a prescribed course of study which confers an award other than a formal academic degree.
(E) Classification of Instructional Programs (CIP)—a taxo- nomic scheme that supports the accurate tracking and reporting of fields of study and program completions activity. The CIP is the accepted federal government statistical standard on instruc- tional program classifications, developed by the U.S. Department of Education.
(F) Combination programs—the result of a mechanical combi- nation of two (2) previously existing programs.
[(C)](G) Commissioner—the commissioner of higher education as appointed by the CBHE.
[(D)](H) Content—the program specialization with its related options, if any, for which recognition is intended to be given by the conferring of a degree or certificate.
[(E)](I) Coordinating board, board or CBHE—the Coordinating Board for Higher Education created by [the Omnibus State Reorganization Act, Law 1974, p. 530] article IV, section 52 of the Missouri Constitution.
[(F)](J) Degree—[any prescribed course of study in an insti- tution of higher education which constitutes an area of spe- cialization leading to a recognized degree. This is the same
 123
 
    Page 124
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 as the term discipline specialty as represented by the Classification of Instructional Program (CIP) code used in reporting] an award conferred by a college, university, or other postsecondary education institution as official recognition for the successful completion of a program of studies as defined by and reported to the United States Department of Education[’s Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System] and to the [Missouri] coordinating board’s [for higher education’s] certifi- cate and program inventory. In baccalaureate degrees or higher, the term program is generally the same as major.
(K) Department—the Missouri Department of Higher Education created by article IV, section 52 of the Missouri Constitution.
(L) Duplication—proposing to offer the same or a similar pro- gram to one that is already being offered by another institution. (M) Inactive status—the result of formal action by an institu- tion on the status of an existing academic program, which sus-
pends the program for a period not to exceed five (5) years. [(G)](N) Independent institution—an approved private institution of higher education meeting the requirements of section 173.[205]1102(2), RSMo, provided it is also either accredited or a candidate for accreditation by the [Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools and provided it offers a postsecondary course of instruction at least two (2) years in length leading to conferral of a degree] Higher Learning
Commission.
[(H)](O) Level—a degree, such as associate, baccalaureate, first
professional, master’s, specialist, doctorate and any other designa- tion lower, higher, or intermediate to those which now exist or may be created. (Specialist programs, related to the state requirements for the certification of public school administrators and to the further education of public school teachers and supervisors, should be lim- ited specifically to the field of education. These programs are essen- tially extensions of master’s level studies and should evidence a study beyond that expected of master’s programs.)
(P) Minor change—modifications to existing programs that do not involve changes to course content, prerequisites, or credit hours, including change of program title or CIP code; combina- tion programs; inactive status; one- (1-) year certificate pro- grams; options; program deletion; single-semester certificate programs.
(Q) Professional Degree—is an award for completing a pro- gram that 1) serves as a prerequisite to practicing in the profes- sion; 2) requires at least two (2) years of college work prior to entering the program; and 3) requires a total of at least six (6) academic years of college work to complete the degree program, including prior required college work plus the length of the pro- fessional program itself.
[(I)](R) Program—a prescribed course of study that leads to the formal award of a certificate or degree.
1. Certificate 0 (Undergraduate)—Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma (less than one (1) academic year) below the baccalaureate degree—
A. Less than nine hundred (900) contact or clock hours; or
B. Less than thirty (30) semester or trimester credit hours; or
C. Less than forty-five (45) quarter credit hours.
2. Certificate 1 (Undergraduate)—Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma (at least one (1), but less than two (2) aca-
demic years) below the baccalaureate degree—
A. At least nine hundred (900), but less than one thousand
eight hundred (1,800) contact or clock hours; or
B. At least thirty (30), but less than sixty (60) semester or
trimester hours; or
C. At least forty-five (45), but less than ninety (90) quar-
ter hours.
3. Associate’s degree—an award that normally requires no more than sixty (60) semester credit hours unless necessary for accreditation or licensure.
4. Certificate 2 (Undergraduate)—postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma (at least two (2), but less than four (4) aca- demic years) below the baccalaureate degree—
A. At least one thousand eight hundred (1,800), but less than three thousand six hundred (3,600) contact or clock hours; or
B. At least sixty (60), but less than one hundred twenty (120) semester or trimester credit hours; or
C. At least ninety (90), but less than one hundred eighty (180) quarter credit hours.
5. Baccalaureate degree—an award that normally requires no more than one hundred twenty (120) semester credit hours unless necessary for accreditation or licensure.
6. Graduate certificate—an organized program of study beyond the bachelor’s degree, designed for persons who have completed a baccalaureate degree but not meeting requirements of academic degrees at the master’s level.
7. Master’s degree—an award that typically requires suc- cessful completion of a program of study of at least the full-time equivalent of one (1), but not more than two (2) academic years of work beyond the bachelor’s degree. Some of these degrees may require more than two (2) full-time equivalent academic years of work.
8. Post-master’s certificate (First-professional certificate)— an organized program beyond the master’s degree but not meet- ing requirements of academic degrees at the doctor’s level. This award is designed for persons having completed the first-profes- sional degree (refresher courses or additional units of study in a specialty or subspecialty).
9. Doctoral degree—the highest award a student can earn for graduate study (research/scholarship or professional practice).
(S) Program deletion—the removal of a program or an option from an institution’s program offerings.
(T) Program change—any revision or change in a program name or its nomenclature, including CIP number.
[(J)](U) Public institution—an approved public institution of high- er education meeting the requirements of section 173.[205]1102(3), RSMo[, provided it is also either accredited or a candidate for accreditation by the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, and provided it offers a postsecondary course of instruction at least two (2) years in length leading to conferral of a degree].
[(K)](V) Program option[s] or option—a formally designated area of specialization within an existing degree program that has a distinc- tive curricular pattern. A [preponderance] majority of required courses for the option will be taken in a core of courses common to all variations of the existing parent degree. For the purposes of pro- gram changes, option, emphasis area, and other similar terms are assumed to be equivalent.
(W) Substantive curricular change—significant modifications or expansion of an existing program. Examples of substantive changes include, but are not limited to, a change in the pro- gram’s overall credits or goals; deletion and replacement of a sig- nificant number of courses in the program’s curriculum; change in the primary mode of delivery; change in the program’s pur- pose; change in the audience(s) that the program is intended to serve.
[(L)](X) Program [T]type or type of program—A designation within a degree level, such as associate of arts(AA), associate of sci- ence (AS), associate of applied science (AAS), bachelor of arts, bachelor of science, bachelor of science in engineering, master of arts, master of science, doctor of philosophy, doctor of education, etc. [AA and AS degrees are oriented toward transfer to bac- calaureate programs. AAS degrees are not oriented toward

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 125
  transfer to baccalaureate programs, but rather are terminal vocational programs.]
[(3)](2) [General Program Approval] Special Procedure[s] for New Public Institutions.
[(A) The coordinating board or its designee shall be responsible for the review of all new program proposals and shall either approve or disapprove them. Institutions submit- ting new programs for CBHE review shall follow the format outlined by CBHE staff. Submissions shall be made on appropriate forms as provided by the CBHE. All actions resulting in the approval of new programs for public institu- tions shall be subject to a stipulation regarding the pro- gram’s ability to attain specified performance goals during a stipulated period that shall have been established by the sponsoring institution and shall have been approved by the board or its designee.
(B) Performance Review. At the conclusion of the stipulat- ed period, the program’s performance shall be reviewed on the basis of the specified goals in a manner mutually satis- factory to the sponsoring institution and the commissioner. In the event a new program fails to develop satisfactorily in the allotted period as determined by the board or its designee, the status of the new program shall be evaluated. As a result of this review, approval may be continued with or without further stipulations, or program authorization may be withdrawn. In the latter event, should the sponsoring institution choose to continue the new program rather than terminate it, the resources associated with the program shall be withdrawn from the institution’s funding base for the pur- pose of developing future state appropriation requests.
(C) Special Procedure for New Public Institutions.]
[1.](A) Since newly-established public institutions have ordinarily only begun the process of assembling the resources necessary to offer instruction, application of the usual [and customary] review process would [not] be inappropriate. As a consequence, new public institutions must develop a five- (5-)[-] year academic plan that pro- jects those programs the institution intends to develop during this period based upon a need analysis it has conducted. The institution must also provide satisfactory evidence that it can reasonably expect to acquire the resources necessary to support these programs. The institution must submit annual updates on the plan and its progress toward full implementation. At these times the institution may request revisions in its original plan.
[2.](B) Subject to [coordinating board] CBHE approval of the plan, the new institution may offer these programs for a period not to exceed five (5) years. During this time the institution must submit formal proposals for new program approval; however, the submission of these programs may occur on a schedule convenient to the institu- tion. Those programs that have not received regular approval by the end of the five- (5-)[-] year planning period shall be terminated, or the resources associated with the program shall be withdrawn from the institution’s funding base for the purpose of developing future state appropriation requests.
[(D)](C) Notice. Prompt notice of the results of all academic pro- gram approval and review actions by the board or its designee, including any pertinent comments relating thereto, [shall] will be sent to the [Coordinating Board for Higher Education] CBHE whenever the action decision has been delegated, to all higher edu- cation institutions and to the public in a manner deemed appropriate by the commissioner.
[(4)](3) General Program Review [Policies] for Independent Institutions. Except for subsections (4)(A), (4)(B), the right to appeal provided in section (8), and any pertinent definitions in section (1), this rule does not apply to independent institutions. Independent institutions shall submit all new degree and certifi- cate programs for CBHE review according to the procedure in
either subsection (4)(A) or (4)(B), as determined by department staff. The CBHE may offer nonbinding recommendations on such program proposals, and may use submitted information to aid the analysis of public institutions’ program proposals. Submission of new program information is a prerequisite to receiving any funds administered by the CBHE in accordance with section 173.005.2(9) and (10), RSMo, but receipt of such funds does not depend on receipt or compliance with CBHE com- ments or recommendations. In no event, section (4) of this rule notwithstanding, will independent institutions’ program propos- als be subject to CBHE approval.
[(A) Independent institutions shall submit all new degree and certificate programs for coordinating board review. Institutions submitting new programs for CBHE review shall follow the general format used by public institutions. Submissions should be made on appropriate forms as provid- ed by the CBHE.
(B) The board or its designee shall review new program proposals submitted by independent institutions and may make pertinent comments and recommendations. Although these recommendations are not binding on independent institutions, submission of the proposals is required of inde- pendent institutions to address the issues of duplication and access at the postsecondary level as well as to enable the CBHE to fulfill its statutory obligations. Compliance with this policy is one (1) of the conditions for the eligibility of inde- pendent institutions for participation in the Missouri student grant program.
(C) The board or its designee shall ensure that the review of new programs submitted by independent institutions is conducted in a manner to provide that all criteria and defin- itions that are applicable to public institutions are also applicable to independent institutions except as explicitly provided in this rule. These criteria, however, shall be applied with due regard for the differences between public and inde- pendent institutions as well as the different degree of responsibility and authority the coordinating board and state have in the operation of the respective sectors.
(D) With respect to permissible differences in the review process between independent and public institutions, the following criteria, procedures and definitions shall not be applicable to independent institutions unless an individual independent institution should voluntarily elect to participate in a particular review provision:
1. All financial criteria shall not be applicable and related data should not be submitted;
2. Provisions related to cooperative intercampus degree programs shall not be applicable;
3. Provisions related to staff advisory comments shall not be applicable;
4. Provisions related to performance reviews for new programs shall not be applicable;
5. Provisions related to the use of consultants shall not be applicable; and
6. Provisions related to the joint review of vocational programs by the coordinating board and the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education shall not be applicable.
(E) Notice. Prompt notice of the results of all academic program review actions by the CBHE or its designee, includ- ing any pertinent comments relating thereto, shall be sent to the Coordinating Board for Higher Education whenever the action decision has been delegated, to all higher education institutions and to the public in a manner deemed appropri- ate by the commissioner.]
(4) Types of Review. (A) Staff Review.
1. Minor changes to existing academic programs and the

    Page 126
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 addition of some certificates may be addressed through a staff review. Institutions shall report all minor changes to ensure that the state program inventory is accurate and complete.
2. Requests for minor changes to existing academic pro- grams must be submitted to the department on forms provided by the department. The following guidelines apply to specific change requests:
A. Moving an existing program to inactive status.
(I) Programs placed on inactive status will be suspend-
ed for a specified period not to exceed five (5) years.
(II) Students in the program at the time this status is adopted will be permitted to conclude their course of study if they have no more than two (2) years of coursework remaining,
but no new students may be admitted to the program.
(III) At the conclusion of the designated inactive period, not to exceed five (5) years, the institution must review the pro-
gram’s status and may either delete it or reactivate it.
(IV) Only programs and certificates may be placed in inactive status; options are deleted through the program deletion
process;
B. Program deletion. At the time an institution notifies the
Higher Learning Commission (HLC) in writing about the cir- cumstances for which HLC requires a teach-out agreement, the institution must also notify the department. Institutions must provide program name, level, CIP code, and effective date of deletion;
C. Location notification. This includes change of address updates, and notifications of closed locations. Notifications of closed locations must also include the list of programs to be delet- ed at the location;
D. Change of program title or CIP code. A title, CIP code, or nomenclature revision that includes substantive curriculum changes may be deemed tantamount to a new program and may be referred to the institution for consideration at the routine or comprehensive review level;
E. Combination programs. Combination programs will be reviewed at the staff review level for the elimination of duplicated requirements. The development of interdisciplinary programs and area study programs that utilize the resources of several existing programs will be reviewed through the routine or com- prehensive new program approval process. However, proposals that combine two (2) or more programs ordinarily involve a sub- stantive curricular change, which must be reviewed in the com- prehensive process described in subsection (5)(C);
F. Certificate programs. Single-semester certificate pro- grams, either as a stand-alone or as part of a parent-degree pro- gram, will be considered under staff review. A one- (1-) year cer- tificate may be considered under staff review only if developed from, directly related to, and deriving courses predominantly from an approved parent degree program. Otherwise, one- (1-) year certificate proposals must be submitted as a new program at the routine or comprehensive review level, as appropriate;
G. Graduate certificates. Graduate certificates greater than a single semester in length may be approved at the staff review level if they are part of an existing approved parent degree program. Graduate certificates greater than a single semester that are not part of an approved parent degree must be submitted as a new program at the routine or comprehensive review level, whichever is appropriate; and
H. Adding an option to an existing program. The addition of a specialized course of study as a component of an umbrella degree program may be submitted as a program change subject to a determination by the CBHE or its designee regarding the potential for unnecessary or inappropriate duplication of existing programs, in accordance with subsection (9)(C) of this rule. Only in those instances in which duplication is necessary and appro- priate may the proposed option be implemented. Options within a parent degree program will have the same CIP code as the par-
ent degree. The institution shall provide evidence that the pro- posed option functions as a component of an umbrella degree program, including the curriculum common to the parent degree and all of its options.
(I) The following general guidelines distinguish a per- missible option addition from a proposed new degree program:
(a) An option or emphasis area generally functions as a component of an umbrella degree program. As such, an option in a specialized topic will consist of a core area of study in the major plus selected topical courses in the specialty. Typically, the core area of study will constitute a majority of the requirements in the major area of study as measured in the number of required courses or credit hours;
(b) A proposed option or emphasis area must be a logical component or extension of the umbrella degree program. One (1) measure of this compatibility—but not the only one— would be the consonance of the proposed addition with the fed- eral CIP taxonomy. For instance, using physics as an example, optics would be an appropriate option (emphasis area) while astrophysics would ordinarily not be acceptable as it is typically viewed as a branch of astronomy rather than physics;
(c) The number of new courses required to imple- ment a new option or emphasis area is relevant. Four (4) or more new courses in a proposed new option would tend to raise ques- tions about resource commitments and suggest that a new pro- gram has been developed; and
(d) The need to develop new courses as a condition of implementing an option is a relevant consideration.
3. Review and reporting. Department staff will review requests for minor changes to existing academic programs. Department staff may request additional information from the proposing institution.
4. Timeline. For all requests submitted by the first of the month, department staff will process, review, and report back to institutions by the end of that same month. Department staff will report routine review actions to the CBHE at the next regular board meeting following completion of review.
(B) Routine Review.
1. Proposals for new academic programs that are not minor,
but do not constitute a significant change in an institution’s cur- rent role, scope, or mission will be reviewed under the routine review process. For a proposed program to be considered through routine review, it must meet all of the following criteria:
A. The program is clearly within the institution’s CBHE- approved mission;
B. The program will be offered within the proposing insti- tution’s CBHE-approved service region;
C. The program will not unnecessarily duplicate an exist- ing program in the applicable geographic area, as described in subsection (9)(C) of this rule;
D. The program will be offered at the main campus or at a CBHE-approved off-site location;
E. The program will build on existing programs and fac- ulty expertise; and
F. The cost to launch the program will be minimal and within the institution’s current operating budget.
2. The following proposals generally will be considered under the routine review process:
A. Substantive curricular changes to an existing program;
B. Delivery of an approved program at a CBHE-approved off-site location; and
C. New degree programs offered in collaboration with an institution already approved to offer such a program.
3. Process.
A. Institutions shall provide information about the pro-
posed program to the department on forms provided by the department. This information will include certification that the proposal meets the criteria for routine review and that the pro- gram meets the criteria for all new academic programs.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 127
  Department staff may request additional information from the proposing institution.
B. Department staff will verify and post the proposal on the department’s website to allow for twenty (20) days of public review and comment. Any institution, member of the profession, occupation, or specialized academic field, and any other interest- ed individual may express an opinion to department staff regard- ing any new program proposal. Comments must be received within twenty (20) days of the proposal’s posting on the depart- ment website.
C. The proposing public institution will address com- ments and feedback received. Once all concerns are resolved, the commissioner will recommend provisional approval of the pro- gram for a period of five (5) years.
(I) The public institution shall establish clearly defined performance goals for the new program to be achieved during the provisional implementation period. The public institution may revise its performance goals for the new program at any time during the designated implementation period with the concur- rence of department staff.
(II) Provisional approval by the CBHE or its designee is valid for two (2) years following the first fall term after CBHE approval. If an institution has not implemented the proposal by that date, the approval will lapse and the program proposal must be resubmitted with updated information.
D. At the end of the five- (5-) year provisional approval period, the department will review the program’s viability to determine whether the CBHE’s provisional approval should become unconditional, remain provisional pending further review in two (2) years, or be terminated.
(I) Public institutions shall provide to department staff, in a manner prescribed by department staff, enrollment, gradu- ation, and staffing data for the program, as well as a brief sum- mary of program performance. If the program is performing as well as or better than the projections in the original program pro- posal, the department will recommend that the CBHE approve the program unconditionally.
(II) If the CBHE terminates provisional approval, the public institution shall take the necessary steps to close the pro- gram, which includes accommodating students currently enrolled in the program.
4. Timeline.
A. Requests submitted by the first of the month will be
reviewed and processed, and in most cases institutions will be notified, by the end of that same month. Department staff will report routine review actions to the CBHE at the next regular board meeting following completion of review.
(C) Comprehensive Review.
1. Proposed new academic programs that meet any of the
following criteria will be subject to a comprehensive review:
A. The program will be offered outside the institution’s
CBHE-approved service region;
B. The institution will incur substantial costs to launch
and sustain the program;
C. The program will include the offering of degrees at the
baccalaureate level or higher that fall within the Classification of Instructional Programs (CIP) code of 14, Engineering;
D. The program is outside an institution’s CBHE- approved mission;
E. The program will include the offering of a doctoral degree, as further described in paragraph (9)(C)3. of this rule (applicable only to non-University of Missouri institutions);
F. The program will include the offering of a professional degree, as further described in paragraph (9)(C)3. of this rule (applicable only to non-University of Missouri institutions); or
G. The program will include the offering of an education specialist degree.
2. Elements of a Complete Proposal for Comprehensive
Review. Institutions shall submit the proposal to the department on forms provided by the department. A complete proposal includes the following:
A. Evidence of good faith effort to explore the feasibility of collaboration with other institutions whose mission or service region encompasses the proposed program. At a minimum, this will include letters from the chief academic officers of both the proposing institution and other institutions involved in exploring the feasibility of collaborative attesting to the nature of the dis- cussions and explaining why collaboration in this instance is not feasible;
B. Evidence that the offering institution is contributing substantially to the CBHE’s Blueprint for Higher Education as adopted on February 4, 2016, pursuant to section 173.020(4), RSMo, and is committed to advancing the goals of that plan;
C. Evidence of institutional capacity to launch the pro- gram in a high-quality manner, including:
(I) An external review conducted by a team including faculty experts in the discipline to be offered and administrators from institutions already offering programs in the discipline and at the degree level proposed. The review must include an assess- ment of the offering institution’s capacity to offer the new pro- gram in terms of general, academic, and student service support, including faculty resources that are appropriate for the program being proposed (e.g. faculty credentials, use of adjunct faculty, and faculty teaching workloads);
(II) A comprehensive cost/revenue analysis summariz- ing the actual costs for the program and information about how the institution intends to fund and sustain the program;
(III) Evidence indicating there is sufficient student inter- est and capacity to support the program, and, where applicable, sufficient capacity for students to participate in clinical or other external learning requirements, including library resources, phys- ical facilities, and instruction equipment; and
(IV) Where applicable, a description of accreditation requirements for the new program and the institution’s plans for seeking accreditation; and
D. Evidence that the proposed program is needed, includ- ing:
(I) Documentation demonstrating that the program does not unnecessarily duplicate other programs in the applica- ble geographic area, as described in subsection (9)(C) of this rule;
(II) A rigorous analysis demonstrating a strong and compelling workforce need for the program, which might include data from a credible source, an analysis of changing program requirements, the current and future workforce, and other needs of the state, and letters of support from local or regional busi- nesses indicating a genuine need for the program; and
(III) A clear plan to meet the articulated workforce need, including:
(a) Aligning curriculum with specific knowledge and competencies needed to work in the field(s) or occupation(s) described in the workforce need analysis in part (II) of this sub- paragraph;
(b) Providing students with external learning experi- ences to increase the probability that they will remain in the applicable geographic area after graduation; and
(c) A plan for assessing the extent to which the new program meets that need when implemented.
3. Process.
A. Department staff will verify and post the proposal on
the department’s website to allow for twenty (20) days of public review and comment. Any institution, member of the profession, occupation, or specialized academic field, and any other interested individual may express an opinion to department staff regarding any new program proposal. Comments must be received within twenty (20) days of the proposal’s posting on the department’s website.

    Page 128
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 B. Department staff, in consultation with the external review team described in part (4)(C)2.C.(I) of this rule, will review a complete proposal and provide feedback to the propos- ing institution.
C. The proposing public institution will address com- ments and feedback received. Once all concerns are resolved, the commissioner will recommend provisional approval of the pro- gram for a period of five (5) years.
(I) Public institutions shall establish clearly defined performance goals for the new program to be achieved during the provisional implementation period. The public institution may revise its performance goals for the new program at any time during the designated implementation period with the concur- rence of department staff.
(II) Public institutions must report annually to the CBHE on the number of students completing the program, financial performance of the program, job placement rates of program graduates, success on any applicable licensure exams, and the extent to which the program is meeting the needs it was designed to address.
(III) Provisional approval by the CBHE or its designee is valid for two (2) years following the first fall term after CBHE approval. If an institution has not implemented the proposal by that date, the approval will lapse and the program proposal must be resubmitted with updated information.
D. At the end of the five- (5-) year provisional approval period, the department will review the program’s viability to determine whether the CBHE’s provisional approval should become unconditional, remain provisional pending further review in two (2) years, or be terminated.
(I) Public institutions shall provide to department staff, in a manner prescribed by department staff, enrollment, gradu- ation, and staffing data for the program, as well as a brief sum- mary of program performance. If the program is performing as well as or better than the projections in the original program pro- posal, the department will recommend that the CBHE approve the program unconditionally.
(II) If the CBHE terminates provisional approval, the public institution shall take the necessary steps to close the pro- gram, which includes accommodating students currently enrolled in the program.
4. Timeline.
A. Proposals must be submitted to the CBHE by July 1 of
each year. The CBHE, in its sole discretion, will determine which proposals to evaluate, and will announce its evaluation decision(s) in September. Final decisions to approve programs will ordinar- ily be made by February.
B. Comprehensive reviews will be phased in to the pro- gram approval process.
(I) In the 2017-2018 review cycle, the CBHE will consid- er no more than three (3) proposals, in total, to offer a degree outside an institution’s CBHE-approved mission. No more than two (2) proposals may come from either public universities or public two- (2-) year institutions during this review cycle.
(II) In the 2018-2019 review cycle, the CBHE will con- sider no more than five (5) proposals, in total, to offer a degree outside an institution’s CBHE-approved mission. No more than three (3) proposals may come from either public universities or public two- (2-) year institutions during this review cycle.
(III) If changes to statutes or licensure requirements warrant the authorization of more than one (1) institution to pro- pose a program requiring a comprehensive review, such propos- als may be considered as a single proposal for purposes of this section only.
(IV) Each individual institution’s proposal will be eval- uated on its own merits.
(V) After two (2) proposal cycles, the CBHE may recon- vene a task force to evaluate the new framework and to recom-
mend improvements for the CBHE’s consideration.
(5) [Submission of Proposals] Off-campus and Out-of-district Degrees and Courses.
[(A) Program Review Schedule.
1. Except as otherwise noted in this rule, proposals for
degree and certificate programs must be submitted at least one hundred twenty (120) days prior to implementation and should be submitted to the Missouri Coordinating Board for Higher Education during one (1) of the following three (3) periods each year:
A. March 1 through March 31;
B. July 1 through July 31; and
C. November 1 through November 30.
2. Every effort will be made to complete the review of proposals received in each of these periods during the fol- lowing one hundred twenty (120)-day cycles (which will begin on April 1, August 1 and December 1), unless unusual circumstances require more time for review of a particular program. The CBHE or its designee may permit departure from this schedule, if necessary, but the sponsoring institu- tion shall be notified of the delay and the reasons for it. The sponsoring institution may request an expedited review of a proposed program in extenuating circumstances by inform- ing the commissioner in writing of the reasons for the request. Pending degree programs shall not be implemented until coordinating board action has been completed.
(B) Off-campus and Out-of-district Degrees and Courses.]
[1.](A) In addition to submitting proposals for new certificate and degree programs for on-campus offerings, an institution must submit a new program proposal if more than half the major requirements for the degree can be completed at an off-campus site for four- (4-)[-] year institutions or at an out-of-district site for two- (2-)[-] year insti- tutions. (For the purposes of this section, major requirements [shall be considered to] include course requirements in the specific area of concentration only; general education requirements and free elec- tives [shall] will not be a factor in this determination.)
[2.](B) All formal two-plus-two (2 + 2) curricular agreements must be submitted for review if either the sponsoring institution or the host institution is publicly supported.
(C) [Instructional Site Defined. In the context of the previ- ous subsection, instructional site shall be defined to include only those settings where instruction is delivered directly to students by a physically present teacher. Internship sites and the simple receipt of telecommunications transmissions shall ordinarily not constitute an instructional site. However, pro- grams identified for delivery by such nontraditional means as telecommunications must be submitted for review, and the subsequent review shall focus on instructional delivery at the point of origin. All customary review criteria shall be applicable to programs delivered by nontraditional means.] Types of Off-Campus Instructional Sites Requiring CBHE Approval. The following off-campus instruction sites require CBHE approval:
1. Residence centers, as defined in 6 CSR 10-6.020(1);
2. Off-campus instruction as defined in 6 CSR 10- 6.030(1)(C); and
3. Out-of-district instruction as defined in 6 CSR 10- 6.030(1)(D).
(D) Special Procedure for Multiple-campus Institutions.
1. Multiple-campus four- (4-)[-] year institutions must submit separate program proposals for individual campuses, subject to cer- tain exceptions for cooperative degree programs that are defined in subsequent paragraphs. For the purposes of cooperative degree pro- grams, residence centers [shall] are not [be regarded as] separate
campuses.
2. New program authorization for one (1) campus of a multiple-
campus two- (2-)[-] year public institution may be extended to all

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 129
  other campuses within a district at the discretion of the sponsoring institution [subject to the stipulation that], provided the [coor- dinating board] sponsoring institution [shall be informed] informs the CBHE of all academic programming available at each campus.
(E) Cooperative Intercampus Degree Program for Public Institutions.
1. A cooperative[,] intercampus degree program extends an aca- demic program authorized by the CBHE on one (1) of an institution’s campuses to one (1) or more of its other campuses (not including res- idence centers) under the following conditions:
A. The campus authorized to provide the program will con- tinue to do so;
B. The program is cooperative in nature, that is, it involves the faculty and resources of each participating campus;
C. The program [shall] must be included in the institution’s plan and [shall] be consistent with the mission statement for the receiving campus; and
D. The program [shall] must meet the accreditation guide- lines of the appropriate national accrediting body, if any exists, as well as any applicable state licensure requirements.
2. Subject to the previously mentioned definition, a coopera- tive[,] intercampus program is distinct from the more typical new program model in which a program is developed as a new, free- standing entity on a campus.
3. The procedures and criteria for the review of [these] coop- erative intercampus programs [shall be] are the following:
A. Following the endorsement by the president and the gov- erning board of the institution, the program shall be sent to the [board] CBHE or its designee for review at least one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the proposed implementation;
[B. Each cooperative, intercampus program shall be shared with the CBHE staff for its review and consideration at least one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the pro- posed implementation;]
[C.]B. It [shall be] is the institution’s responsibility to doc- ument the economic development opportunity or the need the pro- posed program is designed to address, including specific [manpow- er] workforce needs at the state or regional level;
[D.]C. Additional expenditures associated with the proposed program [shall] will be defined. If the resource needs cannot be sat- isfactorily addressed by internal reallocation or alternative delivery systems, the program [shall] will be included in the institution’s next budget request for state support; and
[E.]D. The [board] CBHE or its designee [shall] will review the cooperative[,] intercampus program on an expedited basis involv- ing a period not to exceed sixty (60) days. In the event the program is not approved by the board’s designee, the decision may be appealed to the [coordinating board] CBHE following established program appeal procedures.
[4. This subsection is not applicable to independent institutions.
(F) Staff Advisory Comment for Public Institutions.
1. The first step in the approval process for free-stand- ing new degree programs is known as the staff advisory comment (SAC) and applies to public institutions only. The SAC report enables the coordinating board staff to make pre- liminary judgments regarding a program proposed by a public institution prior to the preparation of an entire program pro- posal document and initiation of the internal approval process at the institutional level. The process also enables the sponsoring institution to anticipate and address issues that might be relevant during the full review. A favorable staff advisory comment does not guarantee final approval of the program when staff reviews the full proposal. Conversely, an unfavorable staff advisory comment does not necessarily mean that the final proposal for a program will not be approved. It will be expected, however, that staff con-
cerns expressed in the staff advisory comment will be addressed in the final proposal.
2. The SAC report will emphasize those program approval criteria listed in this rule which are relatively stable in the short- to mid-term and which cannot be readily adjust- ed to different circumstances or perceived needs.
A. Mission and planning priorities of sponsoring insti- tution. Each proposal shall include a statement regarding the compatibility of the proposed program with an institution’s mission and approved institutional plan or plan update.
B. Need for the proposed program. Each proposal shall address the issues of what are the societal, occupational, research and public service needs the program is intended to address as well as the anticipated student demand for the program, preliminary evidence related to market demand for program graduates and the relationship of the program to the economic development of the state, as may be appropri- ate.
C. Duplication of the proposed program. Each propos- al shall comment on the issue of the extent to which any existing programs in the proposed service area already address the needs and purposes this program is designed to fulfill. Factors salient to the duplication issue include the rel- evance of existing programming, the availability of alterna- tive educational delivery systems, extent of student demand, state or regional manpower requirements and access consid- erations.
3. To provide a frame of reference so the responses to these questions can be properly understood, it will also be necessary to submit a brief description of each program including an outline of the proposed curriculum. The struc- ture of the proposed curriculum will not be subject to com- ment in this phase of the review process, and the CBHE staff will assume that the details of these descriptive materials may be subject to modification as the program development process proceeds. However, if additional planning suggests that a major shift in program emphasis would be appropriate, a new document must be submitted for a staff advisory comment.
4. All documents related to this process should be sub- mitted in duplicate. Materials related to a staff advisory com- ment may be submitted at any time during the year. Every effort will be made to complete a staff advisory comment within forty-five (45) days of submission.
(G) Proposal for a New Academic Degree Program.
1. A proposal for a new academic degree program shall be submitted during one (1) of three (3) specified submis- sion periods: March, July or November. All documents relat- ed to this process should be presented in triplicate in the form prescribed by CBHE staff. The board staff may request
information in addition to that contained in the proposal.
2. Approval by the CBHE or its designee of new degree and certificate program proposals submitted by public insti- tutions as well as the formal receipt of new programs from independent institutions are valid for two (2) years following the first fall term after the action. If an institution has not implemented the program by that date, the approval or receiving shall be considered to have lapsed and the program
proposal must be resubmitted with updated information.
3. Any institution or interested party, that is, a represen- tative from another institution, of the profession, occupa- tion, or specialized academic field, or any individual who, as a potential student or employer, believes him/herself to be affected by the proposed program, may express an opinion to the coordinating board or its designee regarding the eval- uation or recommendation of any new degree program pro- posal. This may also occur when an institution or individual wishes to comment on a degree program submitted by

    Page 130
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 another institution. In addition, a formal appeal of a program action may be initiated as provided elsewhere in this rule.
4. Proposal for a new AS transfer degree program.
A. The AS degree is a specialized degree which is intended for transfer into a preprofessional program and is substantively different from the AAS degree. The AAS degree is not intended as a transfer degree into a four (4)- year program and contains courses that are not primarily designed for transfer. Students seeking to transfer this degree will have their transcripts evaluated on a course by
course basis.
B. The AS degree should result from careful planning
and should constitute an articulation agreement between specific institutions.
C. The primary intent of the AS degree is to provide an alternative to the AA degree in those limited instances when the model general education program included in the AA degree cannot accommodate the demands of a prepro- fessional program. The AS degree shall be used only in exceptional circumstances when no other remedy is avail- able.
D. The AS degree is to be developed through consul- tation between sending and receiving institutions on a pro- gram-by-program basis. Proposed AS degree programs may be submitted at any time of the year and will be reviewed using a modified program review process. The emphasis of this review will be on the justification for establishing an exception to the prescribed thirty-nine (39)- hour general education core requirement and the resource implications of the proposed agreement for the sending institution. Submission of a staff advisory comment request is not required for proposed programs of this type.
(6) Program Changes. Changes in programs must be submit- ted to the coordinating board for both informational and review purposes. After considering these changes, the board or its designee may determine that the change in program should be submitted instead as a new program proposal. Program changes should be reported using appropriate forms provided by the CBHE. Program changes that should be submitted include the following:
(A) Program Title Change All revisions or changes in a pro- gram name or its nomenclature shall be reported to the CBHA title or nomenclature revision that includes substan- tive curriculum changes may be deemed tantamount to a new program and be referred back to the institution for resubmission as a new program;
(B) Combination Programs.
1. This category is narrowly defined to include only
those programs that result from a mechanical combination of two (2) previously existing programs. Substantive curric- ular changes shall ordinarily be limited to the elimination of duplicated requirements.
2. The development of interdisciplinary programs and area study programs that utilize the resources of several existing programs shall be handled through the new program approval process.
(C) Single Semester Certificates. A single semester certifi- cate may be added or deleted simply by using a Notice of Changes in Programs form provided by the CBHE. The estab- lishment of a longer program, however, shall be pursued through the procedures established in this rule;
(D) One (1)-year Certificate Programs.
1. A one (1)-year certificate program developed from an
approved associate degree program shall be reported as a program change provided that the program is directly related to the approved associate degree program and consists pre- dominantly of courses included in the associate degree pro-
gram.
2. A one (1)-year certificate not associated with an
approved parent degree program must be submitted as a new program;
(E) Option Addition.
1. The addition of a specialized course of study as a
component of an umbrella degree program may be submit- ted as an option addition program change subject to the lim- itation that the CBHE or its designee shall make a determi- nation regarding the potential for unnecessary or inappropri- ate duplication of existing programs. Only in those instances in which duplication is not a problem may the proposed option be implemented.
2. The following general guidelines are used to distin- guish a permissible option addition from a proposed new degree program:
A. At the conceptual level an option or emphasis area functions as a component of an umbrella degree program. As such, an option in a specialized topic shall consist of a core area of study in the major plus selected topical courses in the specialty. Typically, the core area of study shall con- stitute a preponderance of the requirements in the major area of study as measured in the number of required courses or credit hours, but no specific percentage distribution requirement has been established;
B. A proposed option or emphasis area shall be a log- ical component or extension of the umbrella degree program. One (1) measure of this compatibility—but certainly not the only one—would be the consonance of the proposed addi- tion with the federal CIP taxonomy. For instance, using physics as an example, optics would be an appropriate option (emphasis area) while astrophysics would ordinarily not be acceptable as it is typically viewed as a branch of astronomy rather than physics; and
C. The number of new courses required to implement a new option or emphasis area can also be a relevant con- sideration. Four (4), five (5) or more new courses in a pro- posed new option would tend to raise questions about resource commitments and suggest that a new program has been developed;
(F) Inactive Status for Existing Programs.
1. Programs placed on inactive status will essentially be
suspended for a specified period not to exceed five (5) years. Students in the program at the time this status is adopted shall be permitted to conclude their course of study if they have no more than two (2) years of course work remaining, but no new students may be admitted to the program. Programs designated as inactive will be so noted on institu- tional program inventories.
2. At the conclusion of the designated inactive period— not to exceed five (5) years—the institution must review the program’s status and may either delete it or reactivate it.
3. In the event the institution chooses to reactivate the program, the institution shall provide the coordinating board satisfactory evidence that the resources necessary for the program are available and must establish performance goals for the program that are also acceptable to the coordinating board; and
(G) Deletion and Consolidation of Programs. Institutions must submit standard program change information whenev- er a program or option is deleted. This same provision applies whenever two (2) or more programs or options are to be consolidated into one (1) or more new offerings.]
[(7)](6) Use of Consultants.
(A) In addition to evaluating written proposals, the board or its
designee, in some circumstances, may use the services of consul- tants. It is anticipated that this procedure will be used [infrequently]

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 131
  primarily for comprehensive reviews.
(B) These consultants [shall] must be individuals who are mutu-
ally acceptable to the board and to the public institution whose pro- gram is under consideration. Both the commissioner and the public institution may recommend consultants, but the ultimate selection of the consultant [shall] must be agreeable to both.
(C) Services of consultants will be paid for by the public institu- tion whose program is pending.
(D) Consultants may be used in the following circumstances:
1. At the request of either the commissioner or the public insti- tution pending an unfavorable recommendation by [the coordinat-
ing board] department staff;
2. For some health-related professions or high technology pro-
grams whenever clinical facilities, laboratory facilities, equipment, or other aspects of the program need professional evaluation; or
3. In instances in which a judgment is difficult to make without the evaluation of professionally qualified external consultants.
[(8)](7) Programs Reviewed Jointly by the Coordinating Board for Higher Education and the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education.
(A) A[n] public institution requesting financial reimbursement for a new program from vocational/technical funds administered by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education must submit at the same time [two (2) copies] a copy of the proposal in the CBHE’s format to the Division of Career and Adult Education of the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education in accordance with the instructions of that office. [Because independent institu- tions are not eligible for reimbursement under this program, this section does not apply to independent institutions.]
(B) The coordinating board and the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education concur on the following procedures and under- standings for effecting cooperation between the two (2) agencies in the exercise of their respective responsibilities regarding the develop- ment of vocational/technical programs in Missouri colleges and uni- versities:
1. The responsibilities of the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education to approve courses of instruction for vocation- al/technical financial reimbursement and of the [coordinating board] CBHE to approve new degree and certificate programs are independent responsibilities and are not contingent one upon the other. However, as a general policy the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education will not approve financial reimbursement requests which are components of degree or certificate programs not approved by the coordinating board;
[2. In order to avoid duplication of effort by institutions, the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education will employ the coordinating board’s proposal format for submis- sion of new program proposals as its instrument for fiscal reimbursement requests;]
[3.]2. [Coordinating Board for Higher Education] CBHE staff will notify Department of Elementary and Secondary Education staff of the development of any vocational/technical program, and members of both staffs will confer on all vocational/technical degree and certificate programs submitted to the coordinating board; and
[4.]3. The Division of Career and Adult Education of the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education will receive notification of the commissioner’s actions on all vocational/technical program proposals.
[(9)](8) Appeal Procedure. In the event of an appeal of a program review action for [either] a public [or independent] institution, the following procedures [shall be followed] apply:
(A) Any of the following parties may initiate an appeal of a pro- gram action decision:
1. The public institution submitting the original proposal;
2. Any Missouri higher education institution that believes its interests are adversely affected by the program decision; or
3. Any member of the [Coordinating Board for Higher Education] CBHE, in the event the original decision was made by the board’s designee;
(B) An appeal originating with a higher education institution must be signed by the chief executive officer of the institution;
(C) A letter of intent to appeal must be received by the commis- sioner [of higher education] within thirty (30) days of receipt of the official notice of the program decision. If the appeal is initiated by a party other than the public institution that proposed the pro- gram, a copy of the intent to appeal letter and all other subsequent documentation must be sent to the sponsoring institution;
(D) The new program may not be implemented while an appeal is pending;
(E) Within fourteen (14) days after a letter of intent to appeal has been submitted, the appealing party must submit its full rationale in support of the appeal to the commissioner and to any affected insti- tutions. This rationale should summarize the appellant’s justification for a review of the program decision and should include any relevant supporting evidence;
(F) This rationale and the responses of the commissioner and any affected institutions will be placed on the agenda of the next meeting of the [Coordinating Board for Higher Education] CBHE, pro- vided that the next meeting is scheduled at least fourteen (14) days after receipt of the rationale. If [this criterion is not satisfied] the rationale is received less than fourteen (14) days before the next meeting, the request for an appeal will be heard by the [board] CBHE at its next regularly scheduled meeting;
(G) [If a majority of the Coordinating Board for Higher Education agrees that an appeal initiated by an institution should be heard, the matter will be referred to the CBHE committee on academic and library affairs] The CBHE chair will refer the matter to a relevant committee of the CBHE. A public meeting of the committee will be scheduled at which time tes- timony will be presented by all interested parties, and the committee [shall] will make its determination;
(H) In those instances when a member of the [coordinating board] CBHE has initiated a review of a decision by the board’s designee, the chair[man] of the board [shall] will receive copies of all relevant documents. Provided that a majority of the board agrees that an appeal should be heard, the board may decide either to refer the matter to [the] a relevant committee [on academic and library affairs or to hear the appeal itself] of the CBHE. If the matter is heard by the committee, the same procedures [shall] will apply as if the appeal were initiated by an institution. If the matter is heard directly by the board, the chair[man] of the board [shall] will estab- lish the appropriate procedural guidelines; and
(I) All decisions of the body hearing the appeal, whether the full [coordinating board] CBHE or its committee [on academic and library affairs, shall] will be final[; and].
[(J) This section on appeal procedures is intended to be applicable to both public and independent institutions, but no provision of this section shall supersede the general prin- ciple that decisions or recommendations by the Coordinating Board for Higher Education or the commissioner of higher education regarding programs submitted by independent institutions shall be recommendatory only.]
[(10)](9) General Review Criteria for New Degree and Certificate Programs.
(A) Mission and Planning Priorities.
1. The proposed new program must be consistent with the insti-
tutional mission, as well as the principal planning priorities of the public institution, as set forth in the public institution’s approved plan or plan update [in the case of public institutions or the institutional mission statement in the case of independent institutions].
2. The [coordinating board shall] CBHE will determine if proposed programs are consistent with a public institution’s plan or

    Page 132
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 plan update as approved by the [coordinating board] CBHE. Except in unusual circumstances, only those proposed new programs submitted by a public institution that are consistent with the institu- tion’s mission statement and, when appropriate, anticipated in its approved institutional plan, [shall] will be eligible for approval and implementation.
(B) Need for the Proposed Program.
1. [There] Public institutions shall [be a] clearly demon-
strate[d] and [well-]document[ed] demand and/or need for the pro- gram in terms of meeting present and future needs of the locale and the state, although it is recognized that for program approval purpos- es state needs are a part of broader national needs. Three (3) kinds of needs may be identified—
A. Societal needs;
B. Occupational needs relative to upgrading vocational/tech- nical skills or meeting labor market requirements; and
C. Student needs for a program.
2. Some programs may be desirable on the basis of their cultural
contribution or social value or potential to serve student interests inde- pendent of labor market or demand considerations. However, in these instances the societal and student need for the program must be clearly demonstrated by the public institution submitting the proposal.
3. Public [I]institutions proposing new programs [must pre- sent data projecting employment and student demands and availability of openings in the labor market to] at the routine level must certify that employment and student demands exist, are backed by compelling data, and will be served by the new pro- gram. The kinds of information and data [submitted] used will vary somewhat with the type of program proposed but may include the following: personnel and employment projections prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Missouri Occupational Information Coordinating Committee (MOICC) as well as profes- sional and trade associations; surveys of potential employers, includ- ing numbers of anticipated vacancies and training requirements; and surveys of potential student interest.
4. Adequate data [shall be provided to] should support pro- jections for the number of students who are expected to enter the pro- gram. Program enrollment [shall] should be sufficient to ensure a quality educational experience [as well as an] and make efficient [utilization] use of resources.
5. As an additional indicator of need, the public institution shall [clearly detail] explain how program success will be defined and measured, particularly if that definition includes measures in addi- tion to the conferral of a degree or certificate.
6. Determination of need for a new program will be based in part upon an assessment of the function to be served by the pro- gram and the availability of alternative sources of education in a given service area. Availability of spaces in the same or similar programs in all institutions in the state offering postsecondary programs will be taken into account, as will possibilities for interinstitutional arrangements, including contracting as provided by statute.
(C) Duplication of the Proposed Program.
1. A public institution’s proposed program shall not be unnec-
essarily duplicative of [those of] other Missouri institutions’ pro- grams. Ordinarily, proposed programs in basic liberal arts and sci- ences at the baccalaureate level would not be considered unnecessarily duplicative, provided sufficient student demand can be demonstrated. Unnecessary duplication is a more specific concern in graduate, tech- nical, and professional programs which meet special labor market needs.
[2. The questions of how a proposed program meets an institution’s local and state service area needs and how it articulates with appropriate baccalaureate or graduate pro- grams shall also be addressed (In this context it is under- stood that some programs, for example, the AAS, are designed to be terminal in character and are not ordinarily expected to articulate with more advanced programs.)]
[3.]2. [Factors salient to the duplication issue include,] Unnecessary or inappropriate duplication will be determined by assessing the following factors in descending order of priority[,]: the relevance of existing programming; the availability of alternative educational delivery systems; the extent of student demand; state or regional work force demand; and access considerations such as geo- graphic availability, student population served, and cost of instruc- tion.
3. No public institution other than the University of Missouri and its campuses may offer a Ph.D. or professional practice doctorate (a.k.a. “first-professional degree”) without CBHE approval pursuant to subsection (4)(C) of this rule.
A. All first-professional degree programs are closely reg- ulated by recognized professional and specialized accrediting agencies. Some first-professional degrees require a prior degree, but this is not true of all. First-professional degrees include the following:
(I) Chiropractic (D.C. or D.C.M.) (II) Dentistry (D.D.S. or D.M.D.) (III) Law (L.L.B., J.D.)
(IV) Medicine (M.D.)
(V) Optometry (O.D.)
(VI) Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.)
(VII) Pharmacy (Pharm.D.)
(VIII) Podiatry (D.P.M., D.P., or Pod.D.)
(IX) Theology (M.Div., M.H.L., B.D., or Ordination) (X) Veterinary Medicine (D.V.M.)
B. The Ph.D. in any discipline is generally recognized as a research degree, typically requiring completion of original research or evidence of artistic accomplishment. Ph.D. programs require unique faculty, student/faculty ratios, assigned teaching loads, and infrastructure and financial support.
[4. Determination of need for a new program will be based in part upon an assessment of the function to be served by the program and the availability of alternative sources of education in a given service area. Availability of spaces in the same or similar programs in all institutions in the state offering postsecondary programs will be taken into account, as will possibilities for interinstitutional arrange- ments, including contracting as provided by statute.]
(D) Program Structure.
1. Existing programs can be strengthened and enriched when
appropriate new courses and certificate or degree programs are added to the curriculum. A proposed program should be based on existing strengths of the public institution rather than be composed entirely of new courses. Off-campus degree programs must be based on existing on-campus degree programs.
A. Normally, graduate programs should be built upon strong baccalaureate programs which can support advanced study through basic library holdings, faculty resources, and appropriate research facilities and funds. It is, however, recognized that some graduate programs in universities and medical schools do not require support- ing undergraduate baccalaureate majors in that field.
B. New public institutions in the process of being established may also be considered exceptions to this general expectation, but special procedures have been established in this rule to accommodate the developing institution.
2. There [shall] will be a carefully planned and systematic pro- gram of study for the proposed program which is clear and compre- hensive. The structure of a new program [shall] must take into account, and be demonstrably consistent with, program objectives and intended student learning outcomes.
A. The linkage between program requirements and anticipat- ed learning outcomes shall be delineated. Required courses in the major [shall] must not be excessive and should be consistent with customary expectations for the type of degree proposed.
B. The curriculum of the proposed program [shall] must reflect the requirements of any accrediting or certifying body if the

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 133
  public institution elects to apply for accreditation or certification. (This statement is not intended to imply that specialized accreditation should be an institutional goal.)
C. Unless necessary for accreditation or licensure, new baccalaureate degrees should consist of no more than one hun- dred twenty (120) semester credit hours and new associate degrees should consist of no more than sixty (60) semester credit hours.
3. Innovative programs of study shall also contain an orderly and identifiable sequence of education experiences that lead to a rec- ognizable goal.
A. The awarding of credit for any experiential learning, credit by examination, off-campus courses, etc., shall be consistent with both established institutional and [coordinating board] CBHE poli- cies. The requirements for off-campus programs [shall] must be fully comparable to those for similar on-campus programs. If these requirements are not the case for the proposed program, the rationale for the difference must be clearly explained.
B. The policies and procedures for granting experiential cred- it and/or credit by examination (including the maximum number of such credit hours which are applicable to a specific degree program and the minimum scores which are acceptable) [shall] must be clearly specified in written guidelines available to the student. The maximum number of experiential credit hours applicable to a specific degree program [shall] must be the same for students enrolled at off- campus locations as for students enrolled on-campus.
4. In general, courses offered for credit off-campus [shall] must be part of the regular catalogue offerings of the public institu- tion and [shall] must be applicable to programs in the same manner as courses taken on-campus. Special courses developed solely for off-campus teaching [shall] must be limited and [shall be] consis- tent with the mission of the public institution. The standards for awarding credit to students enrolled at off-campus locations [shall] must be the same as the standards applied to students enrolled on campus.
5. Each public institution’s policy concerning residency for aca- demic study purposes (as distinct from fee level) [shall] must be stated clearly regarding the number of credit hours applicable to a degree program which must be earned in-residence on its campus and [shall] must explicitly define in-residence.
(E) Faculty Resources. Faculty resources [shall] must be appro- priate for the program, given the sponsoring public institution’s mis- sion and the character of the program to be developed.
1. The minimum educational attainment of the faculty [shall] must be the appropriate degree and/or occupational or other equiv- alent experiences commensurate with the degree level of the pro- posed program. While the doctorate, in most instances, is the appro- priate terminal degree for baccalaureate and graduate programs, the Master of Fine Arts (MFA) or a similar degree is often considered a terminal degree. If accreditation is a desired goal of the program, the number of terminal degree holders [shall] must meet the minimum requirements of the appropriate accrediting association.
2. Adjunct faculty are an important and necessary component of some programs, particularly those programs that require a high degree of vocational/technical competence. However, programs [shall] must involve credentialed full-time faculty in teaching, pro- gram development and student services. If a program will involve more than fifty percent (50%) adjunct faculty, the rationale for the use of adjunct faculty [shall] must be documented and approved by the coordinating board or its designee.
3. Adjunct faculty, when utilized, [shall] must possess the same or equivalent qualifications as the regular faculty of the public insti- tution and [shall] be approved by the academic unit through which the credit is offered. The responsibilities of adjunct faculty [shall] will be specified in such a manner that their involvement in program development and academic advising is assured, or that these activi- ties are provided by other appropriate means.
4. Expected faculty workloads [shall] must be appropriate and
consistent with good educational practice and expressed in student credit hours per full-time equivalent faculty member in the adminis- trative unit that will support the proposed program. This informa- tion, of course, must be evaluated in the context of the sponsoring institution’s mission, the mission of the proposed program, and the character of the discipline from which the proposed program is an outgrowth.
(F) Library Resources.
1. Qualitative and quantitative factors of library resources
[shall] must be appropriate for the proposed program, given the sponsoring public institution’s mission and the character of the pro- gram to be developed. Books, periodicals, microfilms, microfiche, monographs, and other collections [shall] must be sufficient in num- ber, quality, and currency to serve the program. Adequacy of the library personnel and of facilities to service the proposed program in terms of students and faculty will be considered. While some techni- cal programs may not demand the same type or extent of holdings and services conventional arts and science programs do, these factors must be adequate.
2. Access to interlibrary loans and to libraries at other institu- tions or in other cities [shall] will be indicated. Interlibrary loans and reciprocal loan privileges at local libraries may constitute valu- able resources for the program. However, within this framework, adequate library material [shall] must be available at the public institution which proposes the program. If the program is to be taught off-campus, access to adequate library resources [shall] must be provided.
(G) Physical Facilities and Instructional Equipment. The public institution shall provide [P]physical facilities and instructional equipment [shall be] adequate to support the program[.] and [S]space[s shall be provided] for classrooms and for staff and fac- ulty offices. Laboratories for studies in the technologies and sciences [shall] must be designed to provide maximum utilization of facili- ties, materials, and equipment, which may include[. Some cours- es require laboratory facilities,] specialized equipment such as computer terminals and audiovisual aids, or other special resources. The public institution offering these courses off-campus [shall] must assure that appropriate support requirements are met.
(H) Administration and Evaluation.
1. Administration of the proposed programs [shall] should not
be unduly cumbersome or costly[.] and [I]ideally, [the program should] fit into the public institution’s current administrative struc- ture [of the institution]. If administrative changes are required, they [shall] should be consistent with the organization of the public institution as a whole and necessitate a minimum of additional expense in terms of personnel and office space.
2. Proposals for jointly sponsored programs [shall] should include [provisions for] adequate plans for cooperative administra- tion.
3. Each public institution shall set forth not only the adminis- trative organization but also the instructional supervision and evalu- ation procedures for the program. These procedures [shall] must include evaluation of courses and faculty by students, administrators, and departmental personnel. Curriculum review procedures estab- lished by each public institution for its program offerings [shall] must include standards and guidelines for the assessment of student outcomes as defined for the program and consistent with the institu- tional mission.
[4. The institution shall establish clearly defined perfor- mance goals for the new program to be achieved during a stipulated implementation period. The institution may revise its performance goals for the new program at any time dur- ing the designated implementation period with the concur- rence of the CBHE staff.
5. The institution shall define a review process with the concurrence of coordinating board staff to assess the pro- gram’s development. In the event a new program fails to develop satisfactorily in the allotted period as determined by

    Page 134
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 the commissioner, the status of the new program shall be evaluated. As a result of this review, approval may be contin- ued with or without further stipulations, or program autho- rization may be withdrawn.]
[6.]4. In the event that program authorization is withdrawn or approval is denied, if the sponsoring public institution chooses to continue the new program rather than terminate it, the resources associated with the program [shall] will be withdrawn from the pub- lic institution’s funding base for the purpose of developing future state appropriation requests[—].
[7. Paragraphs(10)(H)4.—6. of this rule are not applica- ble to independent institutions.]
(I) Finances.
1. Suitable financing for initiating proposed programs must be
available. Programs should be financed with fees from students new to the institution, funds that have been reallocated from institutional sources or grants, contracts or sources other than normal state appro- priations for higher education.
2. In those circumstances for which one- (1-)[-] time or limited duration funds are an integral component of the financing arrange- ments for a new program, the institution must also define a transition plan for the period when the one- (1-)[-] time or limited duration funds cease to be available.
3. The proposed program may require phasing-out of some existing program(s) to reallocate institutional resources for new pro- grams that are a logical outgrowth of existing public institutional strengths and consistent with the approved public institutional plan or plan update.
4. Ordinarily, approval will be extended only for those programs that meet these requirements unless the sponsoring public institution specifically requests additional state funds for program implementa- tion. In this event, approval [shall] will be conditional on actual receipt of these funds through the legislative process.
[5. This subsection on finances is not applicable to inde- pendent institutions.]
AUTHORITY: sections 173.005(2)[, RSMo (1986)] and 173.030, RSMo [(Supp. 1988)] 2016. Original rule filed Feb. 13, 1979, effective June 18, 1979. Rescinded and readopted: Filed July 18, 1989, effective Oct. 15, 1989. Amended: Filed Dec. 20, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may submit a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment to the attention of Academic Affairs, Missouri Department of Higher Education, PO Box 1469, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 1—Director’s Office
Chapter 2—Environmental Scholarships
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 1-2.030 Minority and Underrepresented Scholarship Program. This rule set forth the administrative procedures and responsibilities of the Minority and Underrepresented Environmental Literacy Program (MUELP) and the Minority Environmental Literacy Advisory Commission for awarding scholarships to minority
and underrepresented students who are pursuing environmentally- related courses of study.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the authority to adminis- ter the rule was transferred to the Department of Higher Education in 2010 and as such, it is no longer needed.
AUTHORITY: section 640.240, RSMo Supp. 1997. Original rule filed Dec. 15, 1997, effective Aug. 30, 1998. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Stuart Baker, Director’s Office, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received by March 12, 2018. A public hearing is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 1—Organization
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 20-1.010 Organization and Powers. This rule provided compliance with 536.023, RSMo 1986, which requires each agency to adopt as a rule a description of its operation and the methods by which the public may obtain information or make submissions or requests.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the department is writing a department-wide organizational rule to comply with 536.023, RSMo.
AUTHORITY: sections 644.026 and 536.023(3), RSMo 1986. Original rule filed June 14, 1976, effective Dec. 11, 1976. Rescinded: Filed Oct. 12, 1979, effective July 10, 1980. Readopted: Filed Feb. 4, 1980, effective July 11, 1980. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Lacey Hirschvogel, Water Protection Program, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period, March 21, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for March 14, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 135
  Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 1—Organization
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 20-1.020 Clean Water Commission Appeals and Requests for Hearings. This rule contained all procedural regulations for all contested cases heard by the commission or assigned to a hearing officer by the commission.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as section 621.250, RSMo and Chapter 536, RSMo clearly provide the procedural requirements for all contested cases heard by the commission or assigned to a hearing officer by the commission.
AUTHORITY: section 644.026, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed May 1, 2006, effective Dec. 30, 2006. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Lacey Hirschvogel, Water Protection Program, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period, March 21, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for March 14, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 20-4.020 State Match Grant Program. This rule set forth the requirements and process of application for a state grant to match Environmental Protection Agency construction grants for the con- struction of wastewater treatment works and the terms and conditions for receipt of the grant. The rule clarified the requirements and the types of facilities funded and the grant amount available for eligible grantees.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded. Funding for the State Match Program ended in 1987.
AUTHORITY: sections 644.026, RSMo Supp. 1987 and 644.101, 644.106, 644.111 and 644.121, RSMo Supp. 1991. Original rule filed Oct. 12, 1982, effective April 15, 1983. Amended: Filed March 11, 1988, effective Oct. 1, 1988. Amended: Filed Dec. 1, 1988, effective April 15, 1989. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM-
MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Lacey Hirschvogel, Water Protection Program, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received by the end of the public comment period, March 21, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for March 14, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 20-4.021 State Construction Grant Program. This rule provided the requirements and process of application for a state con- struction grant for construction of wastewater treatment works and the terms and conditions for receipt of a grant. The rule clarified the requirements, types of facilities eligible for grant funds, and the grant amount available for eligible grantees.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded. The State Construction Grant Program was replaced by the State Forty Percent Construction Grant Program, 10 CSR 20-4.023, in 1990.
AUTHORITY: sections 644.026, RSMo Supp. 1987, and 644.101, 644.106, 644.111 and 644.121, RSMo Supp. 1991 and 644.116, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Oct. 12, 1982, effective April 15, 1983. Amended: Filed March 9, 1984, effective Oct. 1, 1984. Amended: Filed March 11, 1988, effective Oct. 1, 1988. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Lacey Hirschvogel, Water Protection Program, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received by the end of the public comment period, March 21, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for March 14, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 20-4.022 Industrial Development Program. This rule pro- vided the requirements and process of application for an industrial development grant for wastewater treatment works and the terms and conditions for receipt of a grant. The rule clarified the requirements, types of facilities eligible for grant funds, and the grant amount avail- able for eligible grantees.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded. Funding for this program was made available in the short-term through the sale of State Water Pollution Control Bonds. The funding and the program are no longer available.

    Page 136
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 AUTHORITY: sections 644.026, RSMo Supp. 1987, 644.101, 644.106, 644.111 and 644.121, RSMo Supp. 1991 and 644.116, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Oct. 12, 1982, effective April 15, 1983. Amended: Filed March 8, 1985, effective Oct. 1, 1985. Amended: Filed March 11, 1988, effective Oct. 1, 1988. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Lacey Hirschvogel, Water Protection Program, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received by the end of the public comment period, March 21, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for March 14, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 20-4.043 Hardship Grant Program. This rule provided the eligibility, requirements, and process of application for a hardship grant and direct loan program that was available for economically disadvantaged communities for planning, design, and construction of wastewater treatment facilities. The program was administered in conjunction with the existing Wastewater State Revolving Fund Program or State Direct Loan Program.
PURPOSE: This is an administrative rulemaking rescission to elimi- nate a rule that is no longer necessary. This program was developed in order to secure available federal funding for disadvantaged com- munities. Congress has not appropriated funding for this program since the initial appropriation in the late 1990’s.
AUTHORITY: sections 644.026 and 644.101, RSMo Supp. 1998. Original rule filed Nov. 3, 1997, effective July 30, 1998. Amended: Filed June 24, 1999, effective March 30, 2000. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Lacey Hirschvogel, Water Protection Program, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received by the end of the public comment period, March 21, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for March 14, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 20-4.049 State Match to State Revolving Fund Loan Program. This rule provided the requirements and process of appli- cation for state grant to match state revolving fund loan funds for construction of wastewater treatment works and the terms and condi- tions for receipt of the grant.
PURPOSE: This is an administrative rulemaking rescission to elimi- nate a rule that is no longer necessary. This action will result in less confusion when referencing rules.
AUTHORITY: section 644.026, RSMo Supp. 1993. Emergency rule filed Jan. 17, 1990, effective Jan. 29, 1990, expired May 28, 1990. Original rule filed July 2, 1990, effective Nov. 30, 1990. Amended: Filed Sept. 4, 1991, effective Feb. 6, 1992. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Lacey Hirschvogel, Water Protection Program, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received by the end of the public comment period, March 21, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for March 14, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 20-4.060 Stormwater Assistance Regulation. This rule set forth the requirements and process of application for stormwater grants for construction of stormwater control facilities and the terms and conditions for receipt of the grant as revised. This rule clarified the requirements, the types of facilities eligible for grant funds, and the grant amount available for eligible grantees.
PURPOSE: This is an administrative rulemaking rescission to elimi- nate a rule that is no longer necessary. This action will result in less confusion when referencing rules.
AUTHORITY: sections 644.026 and 644.031, RSMo 1994. Original rule filed Sept. 1, 1989, effective Jan. 12, 1990. Amended: Filed April 2, 1990, effective Sept. 28, 1990. Amended: Filed Sept. 4, 1991, effective Feb. 6, 1992. Amended: Filed Nov. 14, 1995, effective July 30, 1996. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 137
  NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Lacey Hirschvogel, Water Protection Program, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received by the end of the public comment period, March 21, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for March 14, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 20—Clean Water Commission Chapter 4—Grants and Loans
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 20-4.070 Sales Tax Exemption. This rule set forth the sys- tem used by the commission to determine eligibility for sales tax exemption for items purchased for the purpose of preventing or abat- ing water pollution control.
PURPOSE: This is an administrative rulemaking rescission to elimi- nate the rule specifying the system used to determine sales tax exemp- tions. Legislation enacted through House Bill 1670 removed the requirement that businesses claiming the air and water pollution con- trol exemption pursuant to Section 144.030.2(15), RSMo must first seek approval from the Department of Natural Resources.
AUTHORITY: sections 144.030 and 644.026, RSMo Supp. 1997 and 144.062, RSMo 1994. Original rule filed Nov. 3, 1997, effective July 30, 1998. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Lacey Hirschvogel, Water Protection Program, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received by the end of the public comment period, March 21, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for March 14, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 22—Dam and Reservoir Safety Council Chapter 1—Organization, Definitions and Immunity
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 22-1.010 General Organization. This rule provided infor- mation on the operation of the Dam and Reservoir Safety Program and how information may be obtained by the public.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as a more specific depart- ment organizational rule is being proposed.
AUTHORITY: Chapter 236, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed April 14, 1981, effective Aug. 13, 1981. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies
or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Ryan Stack, Dam and Reservoir Safety Program, PO Box 250, Rolla, MO 65401. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public hearing is scheduled for March 14, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 111 Fairgrounds Road, Rolla, MO 65402.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 22—Dam and Reservoir Safety Council Chapter 1—Organization, Definitions and Immunity
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 22-1.030 Immunity of Officers. The original purpose of this rule is to restate the immunity from damages provided in section 236.475, RSMo (1986).
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded since it duplicates exact wording from RSMo 236.475
AUTHORITY: section 236.475, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed April 14, 1981, effective Aug. 13, 1981. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Ryan Stack, Dam and Reservoir Safety Program, PO Box 250, Rolla, MO 65401. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public hearing is scheduled for March 14, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 111 Fairgrounds Road, Rolla, MO 65402.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 22—Dam and Reservoir Safety Council Chapter 2—Permits
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 22-2.060 Issuing Permit Renewals. This rule describes the
procedure for renewing a permit.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded since the statute adequately describes the process for permit renewal.
AUTHORITY: sections 236.405, RSMo Supp. 1993 and 236.415, 236.440 and 236.465, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed April 14, 1981, effective Aug. 13, 1981. Amended: Filed June 14, 1984, effec- tive Jan. 1, 1985. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.

    Page 138
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Ryan Stack, Dam and Reservoir Safety Program, PO Box 250, Rolla, MO 65401. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public hearing is scheduled for March 14, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 111 Fairgrounds Road, Rolla, MO 65402.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 22—Dam and Reservoir Safety Council Chapter 4—Action Taken by Council and Chief Engineer
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 22-4.010 Emergency Action. This rule defines the way
emergency action is taken.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because section 236.455, RSMo adequately defines emergency action procedures.
AUTHORITY: sections 236.400, 236.405, 236.420, 236.425 and 236.455, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed June 14, 1984, effective Jan. 1, 1985. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Ryan Stack, Dam and Reservoir Safety Program, PO Box 250, Rolla, MO 65401. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public hearing is scheduled for March 14, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 111 Fairgrounds Road, Rolla, MO 65402.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 23—Division of Geology and Land Survey Chapter 1—Definitions and Organizational Structure
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 23-1.020 Application to All Wells. This rule explained the
application of the law to the wells in the state.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it unnecessarily states that the regulations apply to all wells. Sections 256.626 and 256.603(13), RSMo, address the application of the regulation to all wells.
AUTHORITY: sections 256.615, 256.620 and 256.626, RSMo Cum. Supp. 1991. Original rule filed April 2, 1987, effective July 27,
1987. Emergency amendment filed Nov. 16, 1993, effective Dec. 11, 1993, expired April 9, 1994. Amended: Filed Aug. 17, 1993, effec- tive March 10, 1994. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: The proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with Department of Natural Resources’ Geological Survey Program atten- tion to Amber Steele at PO Box 250, 111 Fairgrounds Rd., Rolla, MO 65402 or via email to amber.steele@dnr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is sched- uled.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 23—Division of Geology and Land Survey Chapter 3—Well Construction Code
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 23-3.025 Public Water Supply—Notification to Division. This rule established requirements regarding notification by a public water supplier to the division when a well is to be abandoned in order to connect a structure to a public water supply system.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it unnecessarily duplicates statutory language from section 256.628, RSMo. The one difference is that the regulation contains a requirement that certain information be submitted to the division within sixty (60) days. This sixty- (60-) day requirement in regulation is unnecessary since the statute provides sufficient authority to require submittal of the form.
AUTHORITY: sections 256.606 and 256.628, RSMo Supp. 1991. Original rule filed Aug. 17, 1993, effective March 10, 1994. Amended: Filed July 13, 1994, effective Jan. 29, 1995. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: The proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with Department of Natural Resources’ Geological Survey Program atten- tion to Amber Steele at PO Box 250, 111 Fairgrounds Rd., Rolla, MO 65402 or via email to amber.steele@dnr.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is sched- uled.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 24—Hazardous Substance Emergency Response Office
Chapter 2—Definitions
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 24-2.010 Definitions. This rule provided for definitions for

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 139
  terms used in 10 CSR 24.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as it is largely duplicative of definitions found in 260.500-260.552 RSMo. The rescission is being undertaken per the Red Tape Reduction Initiative in compliance with Executive Order 17-03.
AUTHORITY: section 260.520, RSMo Supp.1993. Original rule filed Nov. 30, 1983, effective April 12, 1984. Emergency amendment filed Dec. 2, 1992, effective Jan. 1, 1993, expired April 30, 1993. Amended: Filed Oct. 5, 1992, effective April 8, 1993. Amended: Filed June 14, 1994, effective Jan. 29, 1995. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, PO BOX 176; 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri 65102-0176. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public hearing is scheduled for 1:00 to 4:00 p.m., on March 5, 2018, at the Lewis and Clark State Office Building, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 24—Hazardous Substance Emergency Response Office
Chapter 3—Emergency Notification Procedures
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 24-3.010 Notification Procedures for Hazardous Substance Emergencies and for Emergency Notification of Releases of Hazardous Substances and Extremely Hazardous Substances. This rule provided notification procedures for the Hazardous Substance Emergency Response Office.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as it is largely duplicative of procedures and contact information found in 260.500-260.552, RSMo and 10 CSR24-1.010. The rescission is being undertaken per the Red Tape Reduction Initiative in compliance with Executive Order 17-03.
AUTHORITY: section 260.520, RSMo (Supp. 1995). Original rule filed Nov. 30, 1983, effective April 12, 1984. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, PO BOX 176; 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri 65102-0176. To be considered, comments must be received
within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public hearing is scheduled for 1:00 to 4:00 p.m., on March 5, 2018, at the Lewis and Clark State Office Building, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 50—Oil and Gas Council
Chapter 1—Organization, Purpose, and Definitions
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 50-1.010 Organization. This rule sets out the organization
of the State Oil and Gas Council.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as it largely duplicates lan- guage in statutes, specifically sections 259.010, 259.020, and 259.030.2, RSMo.
AUTHORITY: sections 259.010, 259.020, and 259.030, RSMo Supp. 2015, and section 259.040, RSMo Supp. 2013. Original rule filed Oct. 11, 1966, effective Oct. 22, 1966. Amended: Filed Sept. 12, 1973, effective Sept. 22, 1973. Amended: Filed June 14, 1976, effec- tive Nov. 12, 1976. Amended: Filed Sept. 15, 2015, effective March 30, 2016. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources’ Geological Survey Program atten- tion to Carey Bridges at PO Box 250, 111 Fairgrounds Rd., Rolla, MO 65402 or via email to carey.bridges@dnr.mo.gov. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 1—Organization
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 60-1.010 Public Drinking Water Program—Description of Organization and Methods of Operation. This rule provided information on the operation of the Public Drinking Water Branch and how information may be obtained by the public.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the department is writing a department-wide organizational rule to comply with 536.023, RSMo.
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo (1994). Original rule filed June 14, 1976, effective Oct. 11, 1976. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.

    Page 140
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65101 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be consid- ered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on March 28, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on March 20, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Nightingale Conference Room, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 4—Contaminant Levels and Monitoring
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 60-4.020 Maximum Microbiological Contaminant Levels and Monitoring Requirements. This rule provided the maximum contaminant levels and monitoring requirements for microbiological contaminants.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the requirements of the rule sunset on March 30, 2016 with the promulgation of 10 CSR 60- 4.022.
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed May 4, 1979, effective Sept. 14, 1979. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65101 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be consid- ered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on March 28, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on March 20, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Nightingale Conference Room, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 4—Contaminant Levels and Monitoring
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 60-4.092 Initial Distribution System Evaluation. This rule provided the requirements for initial distribution system evaluations for Stage 2 Disinfectants/Disinfection By-Products for public water supply systems.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the requirements of the rule sunset in 2010, with the promulgation of 10 CSR 60-4.094.
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo Supp. 2008. Original rule filed Feb. 27, 2009, effective Oct. 30, 2009. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65101 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be consid- ered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on March 28, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on March 20, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Nightingale Conference Room, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 60—Safe Drinking Water Commission Chapter 4—Contaminant Levels and Monitoring
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 60-4.110 Special Monitoring for Unregulated Chemicals. This rule established the monitoring requirements for organic chem- icals, volatile organic chemicals, and an inorganic chemical that was unregulated.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the requirements were effective from 2008 to 2010.
AUTHORITY: section 640.100, RSMo 1994. Original rule filed June 2, 1988, effective Aug. 31, 1988. Rescinded and readopted: Filed March 31, 1992, effective Dec. 3, 1992. Amended: Filed May 4, 1993, effective Jan. 13, 1994. Amended: Filed Feb. 1, 1996, effective Oct. 30, 1996. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Sheri Fry, Public Drinking Water Branch, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65101 or to sheri.fry@dnr.mo.gov. To be consid- ered, comments must be received by the close of the public comment period on March 28, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. A public hearing is scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on March 20, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, Nightingale Conference Room, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 1—Organization
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-1.010 Organization. This rule provided compliance with 536.023, RSMo 1986, which requires each agency to adopt as a rule a description of its operation and the methods by which the public may obtain information or make submissions or requests.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 141
  PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the department is writing a department-wide organizational rule to comply with 536.023, RSMo and the guidelines for administering individual vari- ances to any rule or regulation, standard, requirement, limitation, or order of the commission are being moved from this rule to 10 CSR 70-5.060(3).
AUTHORITY: section 278.070.4, RSMo 2000 and sections 278.080.1 and 278.080.5(8), RSMo Supp. 2007. Original rule filed Dec. 31, 1975, effective Jan. 10, 1976. Amended: Filed Jan. 2, 2002, effective Aug. 30, 2002. Amended: Filed Sept. 26, 2007, effective May 30, 2008. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 7—State Loan Interest-Share Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-7.100 Availability and Apportionment of Funds. This rule established the Soil and Water Districts Commission’s guide- lines for use and allocation of funds available to the Missouri Soil and Water Conservation Loan Interest-Share Program.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the Missouri Soil and Water Conservation Loan Interest-Share Program is no longer available. In 2009, the commission passed a motion to discontinue this program due to a lack of demand from agricultural producers for financial assistance to purchase no-till drills and planters. There have been no expenditures to this program since 2013.
AUTHORITY: section 278.080, RSMo 1986. This rule was previously filed as 10 CSR 70-5.100. Original rule filed July 12, 1985, effective Nov. 15, 1985. Amended: Filed Oct. 29, 1987, effective Feb. 17, 1988. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 7—State Loan Interest-Share Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-7.110 Application and Eligibility for Funds. This rule established criteria and methods of application for persons desiring assistance through the Loan Interest-Share Program.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the Missouri Soil and Water Conservation Loan Interest-Share Program is no longer available. In 2009, the commission passed a motion to discontinue this program due to a lack of demand from agricultural producers for financial assistance to purchase no-till drills and planters. There have been no expenditures to this program since 2013.
AUTHORITY: section 278.080, RSMo 1986. This rule was previously filed as 10 CSR 70-5.110. Original rule filed July 12, 1985, effective Nov. 15, 1985. Amended: Filed Oct. 29, 1987, effective Feb. 17, 1988. Amended: Filed March 1, 1988, effective June 15, 1988. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 7—State Loan Interest-Share Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-7.120 Design, Layout and Construction of Proposed Practices and Projects; Operation and Maintenance. This rule specified technical aspects and certification and establishes responsi- bility for operation and maintenance.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the Missouri Soil and Water Conservation Loan Interest-Share Program is no longer available. In 2009, the commission passed a motion to discontinue this program due to a lack of demand from agricultural producers for financial assistance to purchase no-till drills and planters. There have been no expenditures to this program since 2013.
AUTHORITY: section 278.080, RSMo 1986. This rule was previously filed as 10 CSR 70-5.120. Original rule filed July 12, 1985, effective Nov. 15, 1985. Amended: Filed Oct. 29, 1987, effective Feb. 17, 1988. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.

    Page 142
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 7—State Loan Interest-Share Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-7.130 Loan Interest-Share Application; Eligibility of Costs; and Reimbursement Procedures. This rule established poli- cies and procedures for the operation of the Loan Interest-Share Program.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the Missouri Soil and Water Conservation Loan Interest-Share Program is no longer available. In 2009, the commission passed a motion to discontinue this program due to a lack of demand from agricultural producers for financial assistance to purchase no-till drills and planters. There have been no expenditures to this program since 2013.
AUTHORITY: section 278.080, RSMo 1986. This rule was previously filed as 10 CSR 70-5.130. Original rule filed July 12, 1985, effective Nov. 15, 1985. Amended: Filed Oct. 29, 1987, effective Feb. 17, 1988. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 7—State Loan Interest-Share Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-7.140 District Administration of the Loan Interest- Share Program. This rule established commission guidelines for district administration and function in the Loan Interest-Share Program.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the Missouri Soil and Water Conservation Loan Interest-Share Program is no longer available. In 2009, the commission passed a motion to discontinue this program due to a lack of demand from agricultural producers for
financial assistance to purchase no-till drills and planters. There have been no expenditures to this program since 2013.
AUTHORITY: section 278.080, RSMo 1986. This rule was previously filed as 10 CSR 70-5.140. Original rule filed July 12, 1985, effective Nov. 15, 1985. Amended: Filed Oct. 29, 1987, effective Feb. 17, 1988. Amended: Filed Nov. 15, 1991, effective April 9, 1992. Emergency amendment filed March 9, 1992, effective March 19, 1992, expired July 16, 1992. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 7—State Loan Interest-Share Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-7.150 Process and Commission Administration of the Loan Interest-Share Program. This rule established guidelines for the administration of the Loan Interest-Share Program and the loan process.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the Missouri Soil and Water Conservation Loan Interest-Share Program is no longer available. In 2009, the commission passed a motion to discontinue this program due to a lack of demand from agricultural producers for financial assistance to purchase no-till drills and planters. There have been no expenditures to this program since 2013.
AUTHORITY: section 278.080, RSMo 1986. This rule was previously filed as 10 CSR 70-5.150. Original rule filed July 12, 1985, effective Nov. 15, 1985. Amended: Filed Oct. 29, 1987, effective Feb. 17, 1988. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 143
  Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 8—State Funded Special Area Land Treatment (SALT) Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-8.010 Commission Administration of the SALT Program and Apportionment of SALT Funds. This rule estab- lished commission guidelines for the administration of the program and the allocation of funds available for the Missouri State Soil and Water Conservation SALT Program. One of the primary goals of the plan included the expansion of the SALT program to prevent water pollution caused by soil erosion and chemical runoff from agricultur- al land.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the SALT Program is no longer available. The functions of this program have been com- bined with and made available through the regular cost-share pro- gram described in 10 CSR 70-5.
AUTHORITY: sections 278.070(4) and 278.110.8, RSMo 2000 and 278.080.5(9), RSMo Supp. 2001. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2002, effective June 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 8—State Funded Special Area Land Treatment (SALT) Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-8.020 Application and Eligibility for SALT Cost-Share Funds. This rule established criteria and methods of application for landowners desiring funds from the Missouri Soil and Water Conservation SALT Program. One of the primary goals of the plan included the expansion of the SALT program to prevent water pollu- tion caused by soil erosion and chemical runoff from agricultural land.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the SALT Program is no longer available. The functions of this program have been com- bined with and made available through the regular cost-share pro- gram described in 10 CSR 70-5.
AUTHORITY: sections 278.070(4) and 278.110.8, RSMo 2000 and 278.080.5(9), RSMo Supp. 2001. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2002, effective June 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the
aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 8—State Funded Special Area Land Treatment (SALT) Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-8.030 Design, Layout and Construction of SALT Proposed Practices; Operation and Maintenance. This rule spec- ified technical aspects and certification, established responsibility of operation and maintenance and provided a method of modifying pro- jects and practices. One of the primary goals of the plan included the expansion of the SALT program to prevent water pollution caused by soil erosion and chemical runoff from agricultural land.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the SALT Program is no longer available. The functions of this program have been com- bined with and made available through the regular cost-share pro- gram described in 10 CSR 70-5.
AUTHORITY: sections 278.070(4) and 278.110.8, RSMo 2000 and 278.080.5(9), RSMo Supp. 2001. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2002, effective June 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 8—State Funded Special Area Land Treatment (SALT) Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-8.040 SALT Cost-Share Rates and Reimbursement Procedures. This rule established SALT cost-share rates and reim- bursement procedures. One of the primary goals of the plan included the expansion of the SALT program to prevent water pollution caused by soil erosion and chemical runoff from agricultural land.

    Page 144
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the SALT Program is no longer available. The functions of this program have been com- bined with and made available through the regular cost-share pro- gram described in 10 CSR 70-5.
AUTHORITY: section 278.080, RSMo Supp. 2007. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2002, effective June 30, 2003. Amended: Filed June 3, 2008, effective Jan. 30, 2009. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission
Chapter 8—State Funded Special Area Land Treatment (SALT) Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-8.050 District Administration of the SALT Cost-Share Program. This rule established guidelines for the administration of the SALT Cost-Share Program by the participating districts. One of the primary goals of the plan included the expansion of the SALT program to prevent water pollution caused by soil erosion and chem- ical runoff from agricultural land.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the SALT Program is no longer available. The functions of this program have been com- bined with and made available through the regular cost-share pro- gram described in 10 CSR 70-5.
AUTHORITY: sections 278.070(4) and 278.110.8, RSMo 2000 and 278.080.5(9), RSMo Supp. 2001. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2002, effective June 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 8—State Funded Special Area Land Treatment (SALT) Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-8.060 Commission Administration of the SALT Cost- Share Program. This rule established guidelines for the administra- tion of the SALT Cost Share Program by the commission. One of the primary goals of the plan included the expansion of the SALT pro- gram to prevent water pollution caused by soil erosion and chemical runoff from agricultural land.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the SALT Program is no longer available. The functions of this program have been com- bined with and made available through the regular cost-share pro- gram described in 10 CSR 70-5.
AUTHORITY: sections 278.070(4) and 278.110.8, RSMo 2000 and 278.080(9), RSMo Supp. 2001. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2002, effective June 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 8—State Funded Special Area Land Treatment (SALT) Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-8.070 Availability and Apportionment of SALT Loan Interest-Share Funds. This rule established commission guidelines for use and allocation of funds available to the Missouri Soil and Water Conservation SALT Loan Interest-Share Program. One of the primary goals of the plan included the expansion of the SALT pro- gram to prevent water pollution caused by soil erosion and chemical runoff from agricultural land.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the SALT Program is no longer available. The functions of this program have been com- bined with and made available through the regular cost-share pro- gram described in 10 CSR 70-5.
AUTHORITY: sections 278.070(4) and 278.110.8, RSMo 2000 and 278.080.5(9), RSMo Supp. 2001. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2002, effective June 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 145
  PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 8—State Funded Special Area Land Treatment (SALT) Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-8.080 Application and Eligibility for SALT Loan Interest-Share Funds. This rule established criteria and methods of application for persons desiring assistance through the Loan Interest- Share Program. One of the primary goals of the plan included the expansion of the SALT program to prevent water pollution caused by soil erosion and chemical runoff from agricultural land.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the SALT Program is no longer available. The functions of this program have been com- bined with and made available through the regular cost-share pro- gram described in 10 CSR 70-5.
AUTHORITY: sections 278.070(4) and 278.110.8, RSMo 2000 and 278.080.5(9), RSMo Supp. 2001. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2002, effective June 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 8—State Funded Special Area Land Treatment (SALT) Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-8.090 Design, Layout and Construction of Proposed Water Quality Practices and Projects; Operation and Maintenance for SALT Loan Interest-Share. This rule specified technical aspects and certification, and established responsibility for operation and maintenance. One of the primary goals of the plan included the expansion of the SALT program to prevent water pollu- tion caused by soil erosion and chemical runoff from agricultural land.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the SALT Program is no longer available. The functions of this program have been com- bined with and made available through the regular cost-share pro- gram described in 10 CSR 70-5.
AUTHORITY: sections 278.070(4), and 278.110.8, RSMo 2000 and 278.080.5(9), RSMo Supp. 2001. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2002, effective June 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 8—State Funded Special Area Land Treatment (SALT) Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-8.100 SALT Loan Interest-Share Application; Eligibility of Costs; and Reimbursement Procedures. This rule established policies and procedures for the operation of the SALT Loan Interest-Share Program. One of the primary goals of the plan included the expansion of the SALT program to prevent water pollu- tion caused by soil erosion and chemical runoff from agricultural land.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the SALT Program is no longer available. The functions of this program have been com- bined with and made available through the regular cost-share pro- gram described in 10 CSR 70-5.
AUTHORITY: sections 278.070(4) and 278.110.8, RSMo 2000 and 278.080.5(9), RSMo Supp. 2001. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2002, effective June 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.

    Page 146
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 8—State Funded Special Area Land Treatment (SALT) Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-8.110 District Administration of the SALT Loan Interest-Share Program. This rule established commission guide- lines for district administration and function in the SALT Loan Interest-Share Program. One of the primary goals of the plan includ- ed the expansion of the SALT program to prevent water pollution caused by soil erosion and chemical runoff from agricultural land.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the SALT Program is no longer available. The functions of this program have been com- bined with and made available through the regular cost-share pro- gram described in 10 CSR 70-5.
AUTHORITY: sections 278.070(4) and 278.110.8, RSMo 2000 and 278.080.5(9), RSMo Supp. 2001. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2002, effective June 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 70—Soil and Water Districts Commission Chapter 8—State Funded Special Area Land Treatment (SALT) Program
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 70-8.120 Process and Commission Administration of the SALT Loan Interest-Share Program. This rule established guide- lines for the administration of the SALT Loan Interest-Share Program; and the process. One of the primary goals of the plan included the expansion of the SALT program to prevent water pollu- tion caused by soil erosion and chemical runoff from agricultural land.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the SALT Program is no longer available. The functions of this program have been com- bined with and made available through the regular cost-share pro- gram described in 10 CSR 70-5.
AUTHORITY: sections 278.070(4) and 278.110.8, RSMo 2000 and 278.080.5(9), RSMo Supp. 2001. Original rule filed Nov. 13, 2002, effective June 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Soil and Water Districts Commission, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be consid- ered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publi- cation of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public meeting is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 80—Solid Waste Management Chapter 1—Organization
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 80-1.010 General Organization. The department will adopt one organizational rule describing “its organization and general courses and methods of its operation and the methods and procedures whereby the public may obtain information or make submissions or requests,” as required by section 536.023, RSMo. The evidence sup- porting the need for this proposed rulemaking is available for viewing at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Solid Waste Management Program at the address listed in the Notice of Public Hearing at the end of this rule. More information concerning this rulemaking can be found at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Proposed Rules website www.dnr.mo.gov/proposed- rules.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is no longer nec- essary.
AUTHORITY: section 260.225, RSMo Supp. 1990. Original rule filed June 14, 1976, effective Oct. 11, 1976. Amended: Filed May 3, 1993, effective Jan. 13, 1994. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed recession with the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri. To be con- sidered, comments will be received from February 3, 2018 until March 12, 2018. A public hearing is scheduled for 1:00 pm until 4:00 pm. March 5, 2018, at the LaCharrette Conference Room, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 80—Solid Waste Management Chapter 2—General Provisions
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 80-2.050 Suspension of Permits. This rule authorized the department to suspend a permit, pursuant to section 260.205.11, RSMo. This rule is duplicative of section 260.205.16, RSMo, and unnecessary. The evidence supporting the need for this proposed rulemaking is available for viewing at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Solid Waste Management Program at the address

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 147
  listed in the Notice of Public Hearing at the end of this rule. More information concerning this rulemaking can be found at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Proposed Rules website www.dnr.mo.gov/proposed-rules.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is duplicative of statute.
AUTHORITY: section 260.255, RSMo Supp. 1990. Original rule filed Jan. 29, 1988, effective Aug. 1, 1988. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed recession with the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri. To be con- sidered, comments will be received from February 3, 2018 until March 12, 2018. A public hearing is scheduled for 1:00 pm until 4:00 pm. March 5, 2018, at the LaCharrette Conference Room, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 80—Solid Waste Management Chapter 2—General Provisions
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 80-2.060 Certified Solid Waste Technician. This rule established requirements for certified solid waste technicians as authorized by section 260.205.8, RSMo. The relevance of the land- fill certified operator training rule is diminishing over time as landfill operators have an ever-growing variety of state and federal training courses available. The evidence supporting the need for this proposed rulemaking is available for viewing at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Solid Waste Management Program at the address listed in the Notice of Public Hearing at the end of this rule. More information concerning this rulemaking can be found at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Proposed Rules website www.dnr.mo.gov/proposed-rules.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is no longer effec- tive at accomplishing its purpose.
AUTHORITY: section 260.255, RSMo Supp. 1990. Original rule filed Jan. 29, 1988, effective Aug. 1, 1988. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed recession with the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri. To be con- sidered, comments will be received from February 3, 2018 until March 12, 2018. A public hearing is scheduled for 1:00 pm until 4:00 pm. March 5, 2018, at the LaCharrette Conference Room, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 80—Solid Waste Management Chapter 2—General Provisions
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 80-2.070 Violation History. This rule described the condi- tions under which a construction permit for a solid waste processing facility or solid waste disposal area would not be issued or an oper- ating permit should be revoked based on the violation history of the owner or operator. This rule also describes the documentation and annual updates required to be submitted to the department by the applicant or permittee. There is no federal requirement for this reg- ulation and its effectiveness and purpose has diminished over time. The department will also recommend that statutory changes are made to fully remove this requirement from law. The evidence supporting the need for this proposed rulemaking is available for viewing at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Solid Waste Management Program at the address listed in the Notice of Public Hearing at the end of this rule. More information concerning this rulemaking can be found at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Proposed Rules website www.dnr.mo.gov/proposed- rules.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is no longer effec- tive at accomplishing its purpose.
AUTHORITY: sections 260.205, 260.207, 260.225 and 260.241, RSMo Supp. 1996. Original rule filed Feb. 15, 1989, effective Aug. 11, 1989. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed recession with the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri. To be con- sidered, comments will be received from February 3, 2018 until March 12, 2018. A public hearing is scheduled for 1:00 pm until 4:00 pm. March 5, 2018, at the LaCharrette Conference Room, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 80—Solid Waste Management Chapter 8—Scrap Tires
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 80-8.060 Scrap Tire End-User Facility Registrations. This rule contained the requirements for scrap tire end-user facility regis- trations. This rulemaking will rescind an obsolete and unnecessary rule. Department experience has shown that scrap tire end user facil- ities have minimal impact on human health and the environment. Section 260.270.3, RSMo, requires the department to “promulgate rules and regulations pertaining to collection, storage and processing and transportation of scrap tires.” Specific to this requirement is sec- tion 260.270.3(5), RSMo, which states that “Required record keep- ing shall include the source and the number or weight of tires received and the destination and number of tires or weight of tire pieces shipped or otherwise disposed of and such records shall be maintained for at least three years following the end of the calendar year activity”. The department would recommend statutory changes

    Page 148
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 to rescind these record keeping requirements related to end user facilities in their entirety. However, as an interim step the department plans to move the statutorily applicable record keeping requirements to 10 CSR 80-8.020 and rescind the remaining obsolete and unnec- essary requirements contained in 10 CSR 80-8.060. There is little benefit to the department, regulated entities, the public, or the econ- omy to continue to maintain a separate regulation for scrap tire end user facilities. The evidence supporting the need for this proposed rulemaking is available for viewing at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Solid Waste Management Program at the address listed in the Notice of Public Hearing at the end of this rule. More information concerning this rulemaking can be found at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Proposed Rules website www.dnr.mo.gov/proposed-rules.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is obsolete and unnecessary.
AUTHORITY: sections 260.225, RSMo 2000 and 260.270, RSMo Supp. 2006. Original rule filed April 16, 1997, effective Dec. 30, 1997. Amended: Filed Jan. 2, 2007, effective Sept. 30, 2007. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed recession with the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri. To be con- sidered, comments will be received from February 3, 2018 until March 12, 2018. A public hearing is scheduled for 1:00 pm until 4:00 pm. March 5, 2018, at the LaCharrette Conference Room, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 80—Solid Waste Management Chapter 9—Solid Waste Management Fund
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 80-9.040 Solid Waste Management Fund—Financial Assistance for Waste Reduction and Recycling Projects. This rule contained procedures and provisions to provide financial assistance for solid waste management projects to any district, county, or city of the state or to any other person or entity involved in waste reduc- tion or recycling as provided for in section 260.335.2(5), RSMo. Passage of SB225 in 2005 terminated the Waste Reduction and Recycling Project grants and loans program by rescinding the statu- tory language authorizing the program and the rule in section 260.335.2. The evidence supporting the need for this proposed rule- making is available for viewing at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Solid Waste Management Program at the address listed in the Notice of Public Hearing at the end of this rule. More information concerning this rulemaking can be found at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Proposed Rules website www.dnr.mo.gov/proposed-rules.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the program no longer exists.
AUTHORITY: sections 260.225 and 260.335, RSMo Supp. 1999. Emergency rule filed Aug. 4, 1992, effective Oct. 1, 1992, expired Jan. 28, 1993. Original rule filed Aug. 4, 1992, effective April 8,
1993. Amended: Filed Dec. 14, 1999, effective Aug. 30, 2000. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed recession with the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri. To be con- sidered, comments will be received from February 3, 2018 until March 12, 2018. A public hearing is scheduled for 1:00 pm until 4:00 pm. March 5, 2018, at the LaCharrette Conference Room, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 80—Solid Waste Management Chapter 10—Statewide Solid Waste Management
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 80-10.040 Target Recycled Content Newsprint. This rule described procedures used to demonstrate that the target recycled content usage goals of newsprint are obtained or waived as provided in section 260.255.2, RSMo. This rule is no longer necessary with the signing of HB1251 in 2012 which repealed 260.255, RSMo which required the collection of information on recycled content newsprint from newspapers. The evidence supporting the need for this proposed rulemaking is available for viewing at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Solid Waste Management Program at the address listed in the Notice of Public Hearing at the end of this rule. More information concerning this rulemaking can be found at the Missouri Department of Natural Resources’ Proposed Rules website www.dnr.mo.gov/proposed-rules.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the underlying statutory requirements were repealed.
AUTHORITY: section 260.255.2, RSMo Supp. 1990. Original rule filed Sept. 15, 1992, effective June 7, 1993. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed recession with the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri. To be con- sidered, comments will be received from February 3, 2018 until March 12, 2018. A public hearing is scheduled for 1:00 pm until 4:00 pm. March 5, 2018, at the LaCharrette Conference Room, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 90—State Parks
Chapter 1—Organization and Description
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 90-1.010 General Organization. This rule was necessary to

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 149
  comply with section 536.023, RSMo (1986) which requires each agency to adopt as a rule a description of its operation and the meth- ods where the public may obtain information or make submissions or requests.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as the information will be included in the Department of Natural Resources rule to describe its operation and methods where the public may obtain information or make submissions or requests.
AUTHORITY: section 253.035, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed June 14, 1976, effective Nov. 11, 1976. Amended: Filed Sept. 8, 1981, effective Dec. 11, 1981. Amended: Filed March 18, 1987, effective July 23, 1987. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with Missouri Department of Natural Resources, Division of State Parks, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public hearing is scheduled for March 5, 2018; 1 p.m.; Lewis and Clark State Office Building, 1101 Riverside Dr., Jefferson City, MO.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 90—State Parks
Chapter 2—State Parks Administration
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 90-2.060 Outdoor Education Center. This rule established the procedures, fees and limitations of this facility to provide persons with disabilities the opportunity to enjoy the recreational activities afforded other segments of the general public.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as management of the Outdoor Education Center is now through a contract with Rockwood School District.
AUTHORITY: section 253.035, RSMo 2000. This version filed Dec. 31, 1975, effective Jan. 10, 1976. Amended: Filed June 10, 1981, effective Sept. 11, 1981. Amended: Filed March 18, 1987, effective July 23, 1987. Rescinded and readopted: Filed Oct. 26, 2000, effec- tive June 30, 2001. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with Missouri Department of Natural Resources, Division of State Parks, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public hearing is scheduled for March 5, 2018; 1 p.m.; Lewis and Clark State Office Building, 1101 Riverside Dr., Jefferson City, MO.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 90—State Parks
Chapter 3—Historic Preservation
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 90-3.050 Definitions—Grants. This rule provided defini- tions for regulations pertaining to the administration of federal Historic Preservation Fund Grants.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it exists to explain language referenced in three (3) following rules that also are pro- posed for rescission, 10 CSR 90-3.060 to 10 CSR 90-3.080. There is no need for the definitions rule if the associated rules are removed.
AUTHORITY: section 253.035, RSMo Supp. 1993. Emergency rule filed April 15, 1994, effective April 25, 1994, expired Aug. 13, 1994. Original rule filed April 15, 1994, effective Nov. 30, 1994. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Toni Prawl, State Historic Preservation Office, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65101. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public hearing is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at 1:00 pm, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 90—State Parks
Chapter 3—Historic Preservation
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 90-3.060 Development of Grant Priorities. This rule pro- vided guidelines for the development of grant priorities for the annu- al Historic Preservation Fund Grants.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because federal laws and regulations (such as the National Historic Preservation Act, 36 CFR 61 and 2 CFR 200, chiefly), and The HPF Grant Manual (https://www.nps.gov/preservation-grants/HPF_Manual.pdf) govern the use of these federal funds, therefore this state rule is not neces- sary. Implemented in 2014, 2 CFR 200, is the current source of guid- ance regarding federal grant procedures, whereas this rule contains obsolete references to antiquated practices that are no longer in effect.
AUTHORITY: section 253.035, RSMo Supp. 1993. Emergency rule filed April 15, 1994, effective April 25, 1994, expired Aug. 13, 1994. Original rule filed April 15, 1994, effective Nov. 30, 1994. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.

    Page 150
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Toni Prawl, State Historic Preservation Office, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65101. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public hearing is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at 1:00 pm, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 90—State Parks
Chapter 3—Historic Preservation
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 90-3.070 Procedures for Open Selection of Historic Preservation Fund Grant Projects. This rule provided procedures for ensuring the open selection of Historic Preservation Fund Grant projects.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because federal laws and regulations (such as the National Historic Preservation Act, 36 CFR 61 and 2 CFR 200, chiefly), and The HPF Grant Manual (https://www.nps.gov/preservation-grants/HPF_Manual.pdf) govern the use of these federal funds, therefore this state rule is not neces- sary. Implemented in 2014, 2 CFR 200, is the current source of guid- ance regarding federal grant procedures, whereas this rule contains obsolete references to antiquated practices that are no longer in effect.
AUTHORITY: section 253.035, RSMo Supp. 1993. Emergency rule filed April 15, 1994, effective April 25, 1994, expired Aug. 13, 1994. Original rule filed April 15, 1994, effective Nov. 30, 1994. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Toni Prawl, State Historic Preservation Office, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65101. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public hearing is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at 1:00 pm, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 10—DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES Division 90—State Parks
Chapter 3—Historic Preservation
PROPOSED RESCISSION
10 CSR 90-3.080 Procedures for the Awarding of Historic Preservation Fund Grants. This rule provided procedures describing the awarding of Historic Preservation Fund Grants.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because federal laws and regulations (such as the National Historic Preservation Act, 36 CFR 61 and 2 CFR 200, chiefly), and The HPF Grant Manual (https://www.nps.gov/preservation-grants/HPF_Manual.pdf) govern
the use of these federal funds, therefore this state rule is not neces- sary.
AUTHORITY: section 253.035, RSMo Supp. 1993. Emergency rule filed April 15, 1994, effective April 25, 1994, expired Aug. 13, 1994. Original rule filed April 15, 1994, effective Nov. 30, 1994. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 29, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE TO SUBMIT COM- MENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Department of Natural Resources, Toni Prawl, State Historic Preservation Office, PO Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65101. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. A public hearing is scheduled for March 5, 2018, at 1:00 pm, at the Department of Natural Resources, 1101 Riverside Drive, Jefferson City, MO 65101.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.130 Legal Name on Title Application. This rule set forth requirements related to using full legal name when making application for a motor vehicle or trailer certificate of title.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it lacks substantive value and the department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. In order to be enforceable, a party will title a vehicle in its proper name, whether that be an individual or a busi- ness using a trade name.
AUTHORITY: section 301.190, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Feb. 3, 1984, effective May 11, 1984. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.140 Motor Vehicle Title Services. This rule estab- lished title service agent registration requirements.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 151
  PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary and the department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. The regulation of title service agents is governed by sections 301.112 through 301.119, RSMo.
AUTHORITY: section 301.114, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Sept. 10, 1984, effective Jan. 12, 1985. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.150 Administrative Hearing Held Pursuant to Section 301.119, RSMo. This rule established the procedures that were utilized by the director and title service agents for compliance with section 301.119, RSMo.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. Section 301.119, RSMo provides the department with the authority to revoke or suspend the license of a title service agent, but does not provide rulemaking authority to do so. Any appeal of the depart- ment’s decision will be held at the Administrative Hearing Commission in accordance with section 621.050, RSMo.
AUTHORITY: section 301.119, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed Sept. 10, 1984, effective Jan. 12, 1985. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.230 Legal Sale of Motor Vehicle or Trailer. This rule clarified that the form of warranty prescribed by the director of
revenue for assignments of title to motor vehicles did not require acknowledgment of the transferor’s signature by a notary public. In addition, this rule clarified that assignments of title which did not include a notarial acknowledgment of the transferor’s signature, were not procedurally defective.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it lacks substantive value and the department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. Section 301.210, RSMo does not require a notarized signature by the transferor of a motor vehicle. Repeating this in an administrative rule is unnecessary.
AUTHORITY: section 301.210, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed March 3, 1986, effective June 28, 1986. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.250 Registration and Classification of Commercial Motor Vehicles. This rule set forth the requirements for the registra- tion and classification of commercial motor vehicles.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is duplicative and the department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. Section 301.010(8), RSMo already defines the term Commercial Motor Vehicle.
AUTHORITY: sections 301.010, 301.020 and 301.030, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed March 3, 1986, effective June 28, 1986. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.

    Page 152
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.265 Statements of Non-Interest. This rule set forth the requirements to retitle when an assignment of title is erroneously completed.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary. Sections 301.190 and 301.210, RSMo govern the issuance and regu- lation of certificates of registration for vehicles. The rule describes the procedure for retitling a vehicle when an assignment of title is erroneously completed. The statutes outline the procedure making the rule unnecessary.
AUTHORITY: sections 301.190, and 301.210, RSMo Supp. 1998. Original rule filed March 21, 1986, effective July 26, 1986. Amended: Filed June 30, 1999, effective Dec. 30, 1999. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.300 Use of Local Commercial Motor Vehicle License Plates for Farm or for Farming Transportation Operations. This rule set forth the manner of the use of local commercial motor vehi- cle license plates issued to motor vehicles used for farm or farming transportation operations.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary and department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. Section 301.030.3, RSMo already describes the license plate requirements for a local commercial vehicle making the rule unnecessary.
AUTHORITY: section 301.030, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed June 9, 1986, effective Sept. 26, 1986. Amended: Filed June 24, 2003, effective Dec. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the
Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.315 Motorized Bicycles. This rule clarified titling,
registration, use, and regulation of motorized bicycles.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary and the department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. Section 301.010(37) already defines motorized bicy- cle and section 301.010(70) specifically excludes motorized bicycles from the definition of “vehicle.” Thus, motorized bicycles are not required to be titled or registered as they are not “vehicles” under Missouri law.
AUTHORITY: sections 301.010, 301.020, 302.020, 307.195, RSMo Supp. 1989, 301.190, RSMo Supp. 1990 and 307.190 and 307.193, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed June 10, 1986, effective Sept. 26, 1986. Amended: Filed Oct. 30, 1989, effective Feb. 25, 1990. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.325 Transfer of Passenger Vehicle License Plates From One Horsepower Category to Another—Waiver of Additional Registration Fees and Lack of Refund Provision. This rule clarified when a license plate transfer fee would be assessed.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary. The fees associated with the transfer of vehicle license plates are already addressed by sections 301.140.2 and 301.140.3, RSMo.
AUTHORITY: section 301.140, RSMo Supp. 1987. Original rule filed July 25, 1986, effective Nov. 28, 1986. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 153
  NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.330 Registration of Motorcycles or Motortricycles. This rule clarified the procedures for issuance of motorcycle or motortricycle license plates.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary and the department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. Section 301.055, RSMo already quantifies the annu- al registration fees and section 301.080, RSMo allows for the prorat- ing of fees.
AUTHORITY: sections 301.055 and 301.080, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed July 25, 1986, effective Nov. 28, 1986. Amended: Filed June 24, 2003, effective Dec. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.335 Issuance of Title to a Surviving Spouse or Unmarried Minor Children of a Decedent. This rule clarified the issuance of an original certificate of ownership to one automobile or other passenger motor vehicle to a surviving spouse, if any, or to sur- viving unmarried minor children in equal shares.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary and the department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. Section 301.682, RSMo, already provides for this procedure.
AUTHORITY: section 474.250, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed July 25, 1986, effective Nov. 28, 1986. Amended: Filed July 17, 1989, effective Oct. 27, 1989. Amended: Filed Sept. 16, 2004, effective March 30, 2005. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.355 Junking Certificates for Motor Vehicles. This
rule established the procedures for issuance of a junking certificate.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary. Section 301.227, RSMo already describes the requirements for obtaining a junking certificate.
AUTHORITY: section 301.227, RSMo Supp. 1990. Original rule filed Nov. 18, 1986, effective March 12, 1987. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.432 Registration of a Motor Vehicle or Trailer Subject to a Lease With a Right to Purchase Clause. This rule clarified the requirements for and the issuance of registration by the Department of Revenue in certain situations for motor vehicles or trailers which are the subjects of leases which contain a right to pur- chase clause.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary and the department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. Section 301.010(43), RSMo defines “Owner” to include both the holder of legal title and the lessee with a future potential to purchase.
AUTHORITY: sections 301.010 and 301.190, RSMo Supp. 1992. Original rule filed April 16, 1993, effective Oct. 10, 1993. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the

    Page 154
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.434 Use of a Reassignment of Ownership by Registered Dealer Form. This rule clarified who may use a Reassignment of Ownership by Registered Dealer (Rider) Form and when the form could be used.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary and the department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. Section 301.200, RSMo addresses the assignments of certificates of ownership between dealers. These department forms are already used and do not need to be specifically included in a sep- arate rule.
AUTHORITY: section 301.200, RSMo 1986. Emergency rule filed July 30, 1993, effective Aug. 9, 1993, expired Dec. 6, 1993. Original rule filed July 30, 1993, effective Jan. 31, 1994. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.452 Internet Renewal of License Plates. This rule allowed Missouri citizens to renew their Missouri license plates via the Missouri On-Line Registration Exchange, Missouri Internet Vehicle Registration Renewal System, by using a Personal Identification Number.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is obsolete and unnecessary. The department has already implemented the system described by the rule pursuant to section 32.300, RSMo.
AUTHORITY: section 32.300, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed June 7, 2001, effective Dec. 30, 2001. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.454 Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Device (EPAMD). This rule gave the definition, titling, and registration requirements of an Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Device (EPAMD).
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary and the department lacks rulemaking authority pursuant to section 536.014, RSMo. EPAMDs are already regulated pursuant to sections 307.205 through 307.211, RSMo.
AUTHORITY: sections 301.010 and 301.190, RSMo 2000 and 307.205, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Aug. 23, 2002, effec- tive Feb. 28, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.456 Marine Application for Title. This rule clarified when the Application for Missouri Watercraft or Outboard Motor Title and Registration had to be used.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary. Sections 306.015 and 306.030, RSMo describe the registration requirements for a Vessel, which includes any watercraft. Additionally, sections 306.530 through 306.575, RSMo describe the registration requirements of Outboard Motors.
AUTHORITY: sections 306.400 and 306.410, RSMo Supp. 2003. Original rule filed May 22, 2003, effective Dec. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 155
  PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 23—Motor Vehicle
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-23.458 Documents Accepted as a Release of Lien. This rule clarified what documents are acceptable to the Department of Revenue to release a lien on a motor vehicle, trailer, all-terrain vehi- cle, outboard motor, vessel, or manufactured home.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is obsolete and unnecessary. The relevant statutes regarding the release of liens set forth the applicable requirements. Sections 301.640 (motor vehicle and trailers) 306.420, RSMo, Additionally, the department is now accepting electronic signatures pursuant to section 301.644 which makes this rule obsolete.
AUTHORITY: sections 301.640, 306.410, 306.420 and 700.370, RSMo Supp. 2003. Original rule filed June 24, 2003, effective Dec. 30, 2003. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 24—Driver License Bureau Rules
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-24.010 Form Filing. This rule provided a form for judi- cial officers and law enforcement to use as a receipt for a Missouri driver license accepted in lieu of bail.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the form is no longer in use and is unnecessary. Section 544.045, RSMo outlines the procedure for surrendering a license in lieu of bail or other secu- rity. This procedure is disfavored pursuant to section 544.046, RSMo and this statute does not provide rulemaking authority to the depart- ment as required by section 536.014, RSMo.
AUTHORITY: section 544.045, RSMo 1994. Original rule filed May 28, 1975, effective June 7, 1975. Amended: Filed Oct. 22, 1997, effective April 30, 1998. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 24—Driver License Bureau Rules
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-24.020 Trial De Novo Procedures and Parties. This rule provided the proper procedures and parties necessary for a trial de novo in the circuit court following an administrative hearing sus- taining the suspension or revocation of a person’s driving privilege.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the subject matter is addressed by section 302.535, RSMo. Therefore, the rule is duplicative and unnecessary.
AUTHORITY: sections 302.530 RSMo 2000 and 302.525 and 302.535, RSMo Supp. 2002. Original rule filed Feb. 3, 1984, effec- tive May 11, 1984. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 24—Driver License Bureau Rules
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-24.040 Completion Requirement for Driving While Intoxicated (DWI) Rehabilitation Program. This rule provided the procedure for a driver to complete a rehabilitation program after an arrest for driving while intoxicated or driving with excessive blood alcohol content and established standards for judging whether a pro- gram is comparable to Substance Abuse Traffic Offender Programs.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary

    Page 156
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 and the department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. Sections 302.304 (Points Suspension and SATOP), 302.420 (Supplemental Fee for SATOP), 302.425 (SATOP for persons under twenty one years of age), 302.540 (Reinstatement of License), and 302.580 (SATOP after DWI finding of guilt), RSMo address the various situations when a DWI Rehabilitation Program is required in order to reinstate a driver’s license. Further, the Department of Mental Health regulates the content and requirements of any pro- gram.
AUTHORITY: sections 302.304, 302.540 and 577.041, RSMo Supp. 2003 and 302.342, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Jan. 15, 1985, effective June 13, 1985. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 24—Driver License Bureau Rules
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-24.070 License Issuance Procedures and One License Concept of the Drivers License Compact. This rule established the one license concept for any person applying for a Missouri driver license.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it lacks substantive value and is duplicative. Section 302.600, RSMo, the Driver License Compact, requires an applicant for a Missouri license to surrender any license issued by another state. Further, the graduated licensing system and intermediate license issuance is addressed by section 302.178, RSMo.
AUTHORITY: sections 302.010, 302.301 and 302.720, RSMo Supp. 1999 and 302.015 and 302.600, RSMo 1994. Original rule filed Sept. 1, 1986, effective Nov. 28, 1986. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 24—Driver License Bureau Rules
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-24.100 Driver License Procedures for Persons Under the Age of Twenty-One. This rule established procedures for the issuance of a driver license to people under the age of twenty-one (21).
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it no longer has substantive or procedural value. The form of the driver license issued by the department is addressed in section 302.181, RSMo.
AUTHORITY: section 302.181, RSMo Supp. 1999. Emergency rule filed Jan. 5, 1987, effective Jan. 15, 1987, expired May 15, 1987. Original rule filed Jan. 5, 1987, effective April 11, 1987. Amended: Filed Dec. 11, 1991, effective April 9, 1992. Amended: Filed May 31, 2000, effective Nov. 30, 2000. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 24—Driver License Bureau Rules
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-24.404 Commercial Drivers License Reciprocity. This rule established requirements for accepting out-of-state test results for a commercial drivers license.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is duplicative and has no substantive or procedural value. Commercial driver’s licenses are regulated by the Uniform Commercial Driver’s License Act, sec- tion 302.700 et. seq.
AUTHORITY: section 302.720, RSMo Supp. 1997. Emergency rule filed Sept. 16, 1991, effective Sept. 26, 1991, expired Jan. 23, 1992. Original rule filed Sept. 16, 1991, effective Jan. 13, 1992. Amended: Filed Dec. 15, 1998, effective June 30, 1999. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 157
  must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 24—Driver License Bureau Rules
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-24.428 Excessive Speed Defined. This rule defined the term “excessive speed” for the purpose of commercial motor vehicle disqualifications.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary and no longer has any substantive value. The regulation of commercial dri- ver’s licenses is found in the Uniform Commercial Driver’s License Act, section 302.700 et seq. Specifically, section 302.700.2(42)(a), RSMo defines a Serious Traffic Violation to include Excessive Speeding as that term is defined by the Secretary of Transportation of the United States. The Secretary of Transportation of the United States has interpreted speeding of over fifteen (15) miles per hour as a Serious Traffic Offense, 49 CFR Section 383.51 (Table 2). There is no need to include a separate rule when the definition is already incorpo- rated by reference into the statute.
AUTHORITY: sections 302.700, RSMo Supp. 2004 and 302.755 and 302.765, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed July 21, 1994, effective Jan. 29, 1995. Amended: Filed Aug. 11, 1995, effective Feb. 25, 1996. Amended: Filed April 11, 2005, effective Oct. 30, 2005. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 24—Driver License Bureau Rules
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-24.438 Department of Revenue not Designated as an Election Official. This rule clarified that the Department of Revenue is not an election official.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because the department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. Section 115.160.3, RSMo establishes the secretary of state as the chief state election official. The rulemaking authority granted to the department is limited to adopting rules and regulations pertaining to the format of the voter registration application after conferring with the secretary of state. This form is established by 12 CSR 10-24.440.
AUTHORITY: section 115.160, RSMo 1994. Original rule filed Dec. 22, 1994, effective June 30, 1995. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 24—Driver License Bureau Rules
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-24.460 Driver’s Privacy Protection Act. This rule clar- ified the term “express consent” as that term relates to the Federal Driver’s Privacy Protection Act and sections 32.090 and 32.091.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary and the department lacks rulemaking authority as required by section 536.014, RSMo. The term “express consent” is defined under the applicable law, including the Federal Driver’s Privacy Protection Act, 18 U.S. Code Section 2725.
AUTHORITY: section 32.091, RSMo Supp. 1999. Original rule filed May 31, 2000, effective Dec. 30, 2000. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue Chapter 24—Driver License Bureau Rules
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-24.465 Disqualification of Commercial Motor Vehicle Operators Due to Railroad-Highway Grade Crossing Violations. This rule established standards for disqualification from operating a commercial motor vehicle related to railroad-highway grade crossing violations.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary. This rule describes the various penalties for violations by a commer- cial motor vehicle operator relating to railroad-highway grade cross- ings. Section 302.755(13), RSMo already incorporates the identical federal prohibitions into the statute. See Federal Commercial Motor Vehicle Act 49 CFR Section 383.51 (Table 3).

    Page 158
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 AUTHORITY: section 302.755, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed May 24, 2001, effective Dec. 30, 2001. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue
Chapter 25—Motor Vehicle Financial Responsibility
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-25.050 Filing a Report of an Accident With the Director of Revenue. This rule prescribed a form for filing an acci- dent report that is no longer in use.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because this form has been revised and the rule is unnecessary.
AUTHORITY: sections 303.040 and 303.290, RSMo 2000. This ver- sion of rule filed Dec. 10, 1973, effective Dec. 20, 1973. For inter- vening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue
Chapter 25—Motor Vehicle Financial Responsibility
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-25.060 Insurance Identification Cards. This rule estab-
lished standards for insurance identification cards.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is duplicative. Section 303.024, RSMo already describes the standards for insur- ance identification cards, including the information required to be provided on them.
AUTHORITY: section 303.290, RSMo 1994. Original rule filed May 7, 1987, effective Aug. 27, 1987. Amended: Filed Nov. 26, 1991, effective April 9, 1992. Amended: Filed Sept. 15, 1995, effective
March 30, 1996. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue
Chapter 25—Motor Vehicle Financial Responsibility
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-25.070 Power of Attorney. This rule established proce- dures for filing proof of financial responsibility by an insurance com- pany that is not authorized to transact business in Missouri.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is unnecessary. Section 303.180.2, RSMo already addresses the procedure for a non- resident to provide proof of financial responsibility.
AUTHORITY: section 303.290, RSMo 1986. Original rule filed May 7, 1987, effective Aug. 27, 1987. Amended: Filed Nov. 26, 1991, effective April 9, 1992. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 10—Director of Revenue
Chapter 25—Motor Vehicle Financial Responsibility
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 10-25.080 Failure to Produce Insurance Identification Card—Other Types of Proof Acceptable. This rule indicated other types of acceptable documents acceptable to prove financial respon- sibility when demanded by law enforcement.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded because it is duplicative and unnecessary. Section 303.024.5, RSMo describes the types of docu- ments acceptable to establish proof of financial responsibility, other than an insurance identification card.
AUTHORITY: section 303.290, RSMo 1994. Original rule filed July 6, 1987, effective Oct. 25, 1987. Amended: Filed Aug. 21, 1998,

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 159
  effective Feb. 28, 1999. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 22, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Missouri Department of Revenue, General Counsel’s Office, PO Box 475, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0475. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 30—State Tax Commission Chapter 4—Agricultural Land Productive Values
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 30-4.010 Agricultural Land Productive Values. The State
Tax Commission is amending subsections (1)(E)–(H).
PURPOSE: Pursuant to section 137.021, RSMo requirements, the State Tax Commission proposes to amend this rule to adjust agricul- tural land values in Grades 5–8.
(1) Agricultural Land Grades and Values. The following are defini- tions of agricultural land grades and the productive values of each:
(E) Grade #5. Soils are not suited to continuous cultivation. Crop rotations contain increasing proportions of small grain (for example, wheat or oats), hay, or both. Upland soils have moderate to steep slopes and require conservation practices. Limitations—
1. Moderate to steep slopes (eight to twenty percent (8–20%));
2. Grades #2 and #3 bottomland subject to frequent damaging flooding (more than once in two (2) years) and Grade #4 bottomland subject to occasional damaging flooding; and
3. Serious drainage problems for some soils. Use value: [two hundred five dollars ($205)] one hundred and ninety-one dol- lars ($191);
(F) Grade #6. Soils are generally unsuited for cultivation and are limited largely to pasture and sparse woodland. Limitations—
1. Moderate to steep slopes (eight to twenty percent (8–20%)); 2. Severe erosion hazards present;
3. Grades #3 and #4 bottomland subject to frequent damaging
flooding (more than once in two (2) years), and Grade #5 bottomland subject to occasional damaging flooding (once every three to five (3– 5) years); and
4. Intensive management required for crops. Use value: [one hundred fifty-eight dollars ($158)] one hundred and forty- seven dollars ($147);
(G) Grade #7. These soils are generally unsuited for cultivation and may have other severe limitations for grazing and forestry that cannot be corrected. Limitations—
1. Very steep slopes (over fifteen percent (15%));
2. Severe erosion potential;
3. Grades #5 and #6 bottomland subject to frequent damaging
flooding (more than once in two (2) years);
4. Intensive management required to achieve grass or timber
productions; and
5. Very shallow topsoil. Use value: [seventy-nine dollars
($79)] seventy-three dollars ($73);
(H) Grade #8. Land capable of only limited production of plant
growth. It may be extremely dry, rough, steep, stony, sandy, wet, or severely eroded. Includes rivers, running branches, dry creek, and
swamp areas. The lands do provide areas of benefit for wildlife or recreational purposes. Use value: [thirty-one dollars ($31)] thirty dollars ($30); and
(I) Definitions. The following are definitions of flooding for pur- poses of this rule:
1. Damaging flooding. A damaging flood is one that limits or affects crop production in one (1) or more of the following ways:
A. Erosion of the soil;
B. Reduced yields due to plant damage caused by standing or flowing water;
C. Reduced crop selection due to extended delays in planting and harvesting; and
D. Soil damage caused by sand and rock being deposited on the land by flood waters;
2. Frequent damaging flooding. Flooding of bottomlands that is so frequent that normal row cropping is affected (reduces row crop selection); and
3. Occasional damaging flooding. Flooding of bottomland that is so infrequent that producing normal row crops is not compromised in most years.
(2) Forest Land and Horticultural Land. The following prescribes the treatment of forest land and horticultural land:
(B) Land utilized for the production of horticultural crops should be assigned to a land classification grade based on productivity of the land if used for agricultural crops. Horticultural crops include fruits, ornamental trees and shrubs, flowers, vegetables, nuts, Christmas trees, and similar crops which are produced in orchards, nurseries, gardens, or cleared fields.
AUTHORITY: section 137.021, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Dec. 13, 1983, effective March 12, 1984. For intervening his- tory, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed Dec. 20, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will cost state agencies or political subdivisions one million, seven hundred and fifty thousand, four hundred and ninety-five dollars ($1,750,495) in the aggregate as reflected in the attached fiscal note.
PRIVATE COST: Because this proposed amendment either decreases or does not change the use value per acre placed on agricultural land, the assessed value of agricultural property will either decrease or remain the same, therefore there will be no increased cost to pri- vate entities as a result of this proposed amendment.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with Stacey Jacobs, Administrative Secretary, State Tax Commission, PO Box 146, Jefferson City, MO 65102, (573) 751-2414, stc@stc.mo.gov. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice is in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.

 Page 160 Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  
  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 161
  Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 10—General Considerations
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-10.010 Definitions. The commission is amending sec- tions (1), (2), (3), and (5), deleting section (4), and renumbering as necessary.
PURPOSE: This amendment streamlines the format consistent with other definitions and uses terminology consistent with other regula- tions in Division 40.
(1) Person[—As used in these rules, person shall mean]. [a]Any natural person, individual, firm, corporation, partnership, trust, limited liability company (LLC), or unincorporated associa- tion.
(2) Vendor[—As used in these rules, vendor shall mean]. [a]Any person who contracts with the commission to supply goods or services which will be used directly in the operation of lottery games. Vendor does not include parent corporations of, holding com- panies of or subsidiary corporations of a corporation contracting with the commission.
(3) Licensee[—As used in these rules, licensee shall mean]. [a]Any person licensed to sell lottery tickets at one (1) or more loca- tions.
[(4) Illegal machine—If a licensed lottery retailer shall pos- sess machine(s) or promote(s) behavior that violates the pro- visions of Chapter 572 (Gambling) of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, the Missouri Lottery may suspend or revoke said license. The Missouri Lottery may suspend or revoke the license of a lottery retailer, if said retailer is prosecuted by the state of Missouri for a violation of any provision of Chapter 572, RSMo (Gambling).]
[(5)](4) Director[—As used in these rules, director shall mean] or Executive Director. [t]The director or his/her designee.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed Oct. 7, 1985, effective Oct. 17, 1985. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 10—General Considerations
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-10.040 Commission to Meet Quarterly. This rule
required quarterly commission meetings.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as it duplicates statutory language.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014, and section 313.225, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Jan. 10, 1986, effective Jan. 20, 1986. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 15—Employees
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-15.010 All Employees to be Fingerprinted. This rule required fingerprints from all persons seeking employment with the commission.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as it duplicates statutory language and includes a statement concerning only the internal man- agement of the commission that does not substantially affect the legal rights of, or procedures available to, the public.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed Oct. 7, 1985, effective Oct. 17, 1985. Amended: Filed July 16, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 20—Fiscal
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-20.010 Licensees to Authorize Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). The commission proposes to amend the rule name and add section (2).

    Page 162
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 PURPOSE: This amendment allows retailer EFT requirements to be combined into a single rule.
(2) For persons applying for a retail license, the documents required by this rule shall be executed prior to the issuance of a license.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed Jan. 10, 1986, effective Jan. 20, 1986. Amended: Filed May 5, 1986, effective May 15, 1986. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 20—Fiscal
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-20.020 Electronic Funds Transfer System (EFT). This rule required the director to establish an Electronic Funds Transfer System for retailers in a specific manner.
PURPOSE: This rescission allows retailer EFT requirements to be combined into a single rule.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed May 5, 1986, effective May 15, 1986. Amended: Filed Dec. 5, 1988, effective April 27, 1989. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-40.015 Issuance and Length of Licenses. The commis- sion is amending the rule purpose, sections (2) and (3), and the rule
authority.
PURPOSE: This amendment aligns the rule text with its stated pur- pose and modifies its authority.
PURPOSE: This rule provides for licenses of one[-] (1[-]) year in length and allows the director to stagger the expiration by issuing longer or shorter licenses.
(2) The license shall be valid for approximately one (1) year or until terminated by the lottery [as required in 12 CSR 40- 40.070, 12 CSR 40-40.110 or 12 CSR 40-40.120, or any combination of these].
(3) The retailer shall provide periodic updates of license information as may be required by the [executive] director.
AUTHORITY: sections 313.220[, RSMo Supp. 2014,] and [sec- tion] 313.230[(1)(i)(2)], RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Sept. 4, 1985, effective Sept 14, 1985. Amended: Filed Aug. 28, 1987, effective Nov. 23, 1987. Amended: Filed Jan. 4, 1994, effec- tive July 10, 1994. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-40.030 Minority [and Political Factors] Businesses. The commission is amending the rule name, rule purpose, and sec- tion (2), and it is deleting section (1).
PURPOSE: This amendment removes a subsection that duplicates statutory language and updates the rule name and rule purpose accordingly.
PURPOSE: This rule requires ten percent (10%) of the businesses in the City of St. Louis and the City of Kansas City to be minority- owned or-controlled. [The rule requires the director to license without regard to political affiliation.]
[(1) The director shall select retail licensees without regard to political affiliation.]
[(2)](1) The director shall select licensees to [i]ensure that ten per- cent (10%) of the licensees in the City of St. Louis and the City of Kansas City are minority-owned or minority-controlled business enterprises.
AUTHORITY: sections 313.220[, RSMo Supp. 2014,] and [sec- tion] 313.255, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Sept. 4,

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 163
  1985, effective Sept. 14, 1985. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effec- tive Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-40.070 Assignment or Transfer of License Prohibited.
This rule prohibited the assignment or transfer of licenses.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as it duplicates statutory language.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014, and section 313.255, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed Sept. 4, 1985, effective Sept. 14, 1985. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-40.100 Certain Employees Prohibited From Participating in Lottery Operation. This rule prohibited certain employees of a licensee from participating in the management or sale of lottery tickets.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as it duplicates statutory language.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 1988. Original rule filed Sept. 4, 1985, effective Sept. 14, 1985. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-40.120 Suspension and Revocation of Licenses—When Effective Immediately. The commission is amending the rule name, rule purpose, authority, and section (1), relettering as necessary.
PURPOSE: This amendment combines different bases for retailer license discipline from multiple rules.
PURPOSE: This rule establishes when the director may suspend, revoke or decline to renew the license of any licensee and when a suspension or revocation is effective immediately.
(1) At the director’s sole discretion, the director may immediately suspend or revoke a retailer license [if the director determines that continuing to contract with the retailer is not in the best interest of the lottery,] for reasons including, but not limited to, the following [reasons]:
(C) An electronic funds transfer (EFT) payment is rejected for non-transfer of funds (NTF) or [the retailer fails] failure to provide timely information to the lottery regarding any change on the retail- er’s EFT bank account;
(F) The person is ineligible for obtaining a license under 12 CSR 40-40.090 and the facts giving rise to ineligibility occurred or were discovered subsequent to the issuance of the license or the license was issued through inadvertence or mistake to an unqualified licensee;
(J) The retailer provided false or misleading information to, or concealed any material fact from, the lottery during the applica- tion process or thereafter;
(K) The retailer or any key person is arrested or convicted of a felony or a violation of any provision of Chapter 572, RSMo (Gambling), while a licensed retailer;
(L) Any [other] contractual reason [contained in the contract or administrative rules] that provides a basis for suspension or revocation of a retailer contract; [and]
(M) The failure to remit any sales proceeds required to be remitted to the lottery;
(N) Knowingly either—
1. Canceling any draw game ticket without being requested
to do so by the player owning that ticket; or
2. Failing to enter a draw game play requested by a player;
and
[(M)](O) When the director concludes that the retailer has
endangered the security of the lottery or any of its games or that
continuing to contract with the retailer may pose a threat to the fair- ness, honesty, integrity, or security of the lottery and its games.
AUTHORITY: sections 313.220, [RSMo Supp. 2014, and sec- tion] 313.255, and 313.260, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed

    Page 164
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Sept. 4, 1985, effective Sept. 14, 1985. Amended: Filed March 17, 1987, effective March 27, 1987. Amended: Filed Jan. 4, 1994, effec- tive July 10, 1994. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-40.130 Written Notice of Revocation, [or] Suspension or Denial Required. The commission is amending the rule name, rule purpose, and the rule.
PURPOSE: This amendment aligns the rule title, rule purpose and rule text to reflect that it applies to license denials and applicants.
PURPOSE: This rule requires the director to notify applicants or licensees in writing of the action s/he intends to take or has taken and the reasons for the action.
The director, on any revocation, suspension or denial of any license, shall inform in writing, the person applying for or holding license(s) of the action the director intends to take or has taken and the reason for the action.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo [Supp. 1988] 2016. Original rule filed Sept. 4, 1985, effective Sept. 14, 1985. Amended: Filed Jan. 4, 1994, effective July 10, 1994. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-40.150 Change of Information. The commission is
adding a new section.
PURPOSE: This amendment clarifies retailer requirements with respect to changes of information and includes those requirements in a single rule.
(2) The director shall require additional information when it is nec- essary to conduct background information on any persons added to the business.
[(3)] The director may require a payment for any required investiga- tion under this rule.
(3) The director may require a new contract on the basis of the factors set forth in 12 CSR 40-40.090.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed Sept. 4, 1985, effective Sept. 14, 1985. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-40.170 Sale During Normal Business Hours. The com-
mission is amending section (2).
PURPOSE: This amendment conforms the rule to current practice.
(2) Retailers must give prompt service to lottery customers present and waiting [at the terminal] to purchase lottery tickets [for draw games]. [Prompt service includes interrupting processing of draw game ticket orders or sales for which the customer is not present at the terminal.]
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed Sept. 4, 1985, effective Sept. 14, 1985. Amended: Filed Sept. 17, 1992, effective June 7, 1993. Amended: Filed Aug. 24, 2004, effective March 30, 2005. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effec- tive Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 165
  Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-40.180 Notification of Lost, Damaged or Stolen
Tickets or Equipment. The commission is amending the rule.
PURPOSE: This amendment ensures that the lottery receives notice of lost, damaged or stolen tickets or equipment and allows retailers to elect to which law enforcement agency to report the same.
Licensees shall immediately report the theft, loss, or damage of any lottery tickets or equipment to the director of the state lottery[,] and either the Missouri State Highway Patrol[,] or local law enforcement authorities. The licensee shall cooperate in any investigation con- ducted by the commission, its employees, the Missouri State Highway Patrol, the Missouri attorney general, or local law enforce- ment authorities.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed Sept. 4, 1985, effective Sept. 14, 1985. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-40.220 Incapacity of Licensee. The commission is
amending sections (1) and (2).
PURPOSE: This amendment clarifies the regulation to ensure that the lottery receives notice of licensee incapacity.
(1) In the event any licensee is proven to be incapacitated, dies, is adjudicated bankrupt, makes any assignment for the benefit of cred- itors, or is placed in any receivership, guardianship, conservator- ship or trusteeship, the director may suspend the license for all loca- tions licensed to the person.
(2) The licensee, his/her agent, executor, guardian, conservator or trustee shall immediately inform the director of the occurrence of any circumstances set forth in section (1) of this rule. The executor,
trustee in bankruptcy, receiver or any other officer or any court tak- ing charge of the assets of any licensee may apply to the director for reinstatement of the license to sell lottery tickets.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed Sept. 4, 1985, effective Sept. 14, 1985. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-40.250 Special Event Licenses. This rule authorized
special event licenses and set forth those license requirements.
PURPOSE: This rescission reflects current practice.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed May 5, 1986, effective May 15, 1986. Amended: Filed Sept. 15, 1997, effective March 30, 1998. Amended: Filed Aug. 23, 2000, effective March 30, 2001. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-40.260 Retailer Compensation. The commission is
amending section (3), relettering as necessary, and the authority.
PURPOSE: This amendment reflects current practice and terminolo- gy.

    Page 166
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 (3) To be eligible to receive compensation or participate in the incen- tive program for the sale of lottery tickets, a retailer must meet the following criteria:
(A) Be a licensed and active lottery retailer selling lottery tickets at the incentive program’s end;
[(B) Have sold lottery game tickets for the duration of the game immediately preceding the game for which the incen- tive is offered;]
[(C)](B) Be current on payment for tickets at time incentive pay- ment or award is made; and
[(D)](C) [Must b]Be in compliance with the retailer agreement, all aspects of the rules of the commission, and rules of the incentive program for which compensation is offered.
AUTHORITY: sections 313.220[, RSMo Supp. 2014,] and [sec- tion] 313.230[(1)(i)(2)], RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed July 15, 1986, effective July 25, 1986. Amended: Filed Oct. 20, 1986, effective Oct. 30, 1986. Amended: Filed April 27, 1987, effec- tive July 11, 1987. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-40.270 Ticket Transactions in Excess of $5,000. This rule required retailers to alert the lottery that a large block of tickets was being purchased.
PURPOSE: This rule is being rescinded as technology and other reg- ulations render it unnecessary.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed Sept. 17, 1992, effective June 7, 1993. Amended: Filed Aug. 24, 2004, effective March 30, 2005. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effec- tive Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 40—Retail Sales Licenses
PROPOSED RULE
12 CSR 40-40.280 Retailer Contract Provisions
PURPOSE: This rule contains provisions already existing in other regulations but would move those provisions to the chapter that pri- marily governs retailers. This rule establishes certain provisions that may be included, but are not required, in retailer contracts.
(1) In addition to any contractual provisions unique to a retailer, retailer contracts may provide the following provisions:
(A) A discount commission of a percentage set by the director of tickets sold by the retailer;
(B) An installation fee and a weekly communications fee as may be established by the director;
(C) If the retailer has purchased a business where a terminal has previously been installed, reconnection fees may be charged as may be established by the director;
(D) Requirements that the retailer—
1. Sell all games as required by the lottery;
2. Furnish players with proper claim forms provided by the lot-
tery;
3. Provide winning numbers;
4. Attend training provided by the lottery;
5. Allow only trained personnel to operate terminals;
6. Report malfunctions as soon as practicable; and
7. Prominently display point-of-sale and other game-related
materials and equipment; and
(E) Retailer liability for negligent or intentional damage to or loss
of lottery or vendor equipment.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo 2016. Original rule filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rule will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rule will not cost private entities more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rule with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 50—Tickets and Prizes
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-50.010 Tickets and Prizes. The commission is amend-
ing the purpose and adding sections (2), (3), and (4).
PURPOSE: This proposed amendment contains provisions already existing in other regulations but would move those provisions to the chapter that primarily governs tickets and prizes.
PURPOSE: This rule provides that licensees own Scratchers tickets after they are delivered [to the licensee] and [the licensee shall]

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 167
  bear the burden of any loss. Licensees must sell Scratchers tickets in order and cannot play or sell games in a manner that provides an advantage. The [executive] director [may establish policies after consideration of circumstances to relieve the licensee of some or all of the burden of loss] has discretion to halt sales to limit liability.
(1) The licensee shall be responsible for all Scratchers tickets upon delivery to the retailer and shall bear the burden of any loss, includ- ing theft, damage, or loss. The [executive] director of the lottery may establish policies which, after consideration of the circum- stances of the licensee’s loss, relieve the licensee of some or all of the burden of loss. The policies established by the [executive] direc- tor shall be made with the overall functionality of the lottery and the purpose of maximizing the funds available for appropriation as set forth in the Missouri Constitution, Article III, Section 39(b).
(2) Licensees must sell their tickets in ticket order number within each pack.
(3) Licensees or their employees are prohibited from—
(A) Playing lottery games using any method which gives the licensee or his/her employees an advantage in terms of odds of
winning over the public at large; and
(B) Knowingly selling a ticket or combination of tickets to any
person or entity that would guarantee such a purchaser a prize in a draw game or draw game promotion.
(4) The lottery reserves the right to immediately halt ticket sales or redemptions at any retail location to limit the liability to the lottery and its retailer. Sales may resume at the discretion of the lottery.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed Sept. 4, 1985, effective Sept. 14, 1985. Amended: Filed Aug. 28, 2002, effective March 30, 2003. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 50—Tickets and Prizes
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-50.030 Redemption of Winning Tickets—Licensee and Player Responsibility and Disputes. The commission is amending the rule name, rule purpose, and sections (1) through (5) by deleting two sections, adding five sections, and renumbering as necessary.
PURPOSE: This proposed amendment conforms the rule to current practice and contains provisions already existing in other regulations but would move those provisions to the chapter that primarily governs ticket redemption.
PURPOSE: This rule addresses redemption amounts for [Scratchers] winning tickets.
(1) Licensees shall redeem winning [Scratchers] lottery tickets of [twenty-five] six hundred dollars ($[25]600) or less. The execu- tive director may allow exceptions to the criterion in this para- graph.
[(2) Licensees, at their option, may redeem winning Scratchers tickets of between twenty-five dollars and one cent ($25.01) and six hundred dollars ($600).
(3) Any Scratchers retailer may pay a prize for a winning Scratchers ticket regardless of where the ticket was pur- chased.]
[(4)](2) [Lottery Scratchers retailers] Licensees shall follow the procedures for validation of the tickets issued by the lottery before paying any [Scratchers] prizes.
[(5)](3) Winning tickets over six hundred dollars ($600) shall be processed at a lottery office, the location(s) of which shall be pub- lished [periodically by] on the lottery’s website.
(4) A Scratchers or draw games ticket is a bearer instrument until signed on the back by the owner(s).
(5) The owner(s) of a winning ticket must declare all other owners and the percentage of ownership for a winning ticket at the time of filing a claim with the lottery or presenting the ticket for vali- dation to a retailer.
(6) The player, and not the lottery, shall be responsible for lost or stolen lottery tickets.
(7) The lottery shall not be responsible for tickets or game plays claimed by a player in error for a lower prize—
(A) Unless a specific game rule provides otherwise, a draw games game play may only be claimed for the highest prize cate- gory won;
(B) For purposes of calculation of a prize to be paid with respect to any prize in any game, the winning prize amount shall be rounded down to the nearest dollar.
(8) In the event of a dispute between the lottery and the owner(s) or bearer(s) of a lottery ticket as to whether the ticket is a win- ning ticket, and if the claimed prize is not paid, the director, sole- ly at his/her option, may replace the disputed ticket with an unplayed ticket(s) of equivalent price from any current respective game. All decisions of the director as to winning tickets or any other disputes concerning the operation of the games are final and no administrative appeal shall be allowed.
AUTHORITY: sections 313.220[, RSMo Supp. 2014,] and [sec- tion] 313.255, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Jan. 10, 1986, effective Jan. 20, 1986. Amended: Filed May 3, 1988, effec- tive July 28, 1988. Amended: Filed Sept. 15, 1997, effective March 30, 1998. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in

    Page 168
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 50—Tickets and Prizes
PROPOSED RULE 12 CSR 40-50.060 Player Agreement
PURPOSE: This proposed rule contains provisions already existing in other regulations but would move those provisions to the chapter that primarily governs players’ tickets and prizes. This proposed rule addresses player compliance with lottery law, rules, instructions and agreements.
(1) In purchasing a lottery ticket, submitting a ticket for validation, or claiming a prize, a player or claimant agrees to comply with state lottery law and any regulations, rules, instructions or agreements pertaining to the lottery or its games.
(2) There may not be any failure to comply in relation to the ticket or prize that, in the opinion of the executive director, justifies dis- qualification.
AUTHORITY: sections 313.220 and 313.230, RSMo 2016. Original rule filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rule will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rule will not cost private entities more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rule with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 60—Payment of Prizes
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-60.040 Requirements for Annuity Sellers. The com-
mission is amending the rule purpose and authority.
PURPOSE: This amendment conforms the rule to current practice.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this rule is to set out the requirements for annuity sellers [and trustees] who may bid to provide periodic prize payments to lottery winners.
AUTHORITY: section 313.230[(2)], RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Jan. 23, 1986, effective Feb. 1, 1986. Amended: Filed March 17, 1987, effective June 11, 1987. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 60—Payment of Prizes
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-60.050 Requirements for Companies Providing Insurance for Annuity Contracts. This rule set out requirements for annuity contracts making periodic prize payments to major lot- tery prize winners.
PURPOSE: This rescission reflects current practice.
AUTHORITY: section 313.230(1)(l), RSMo 2000. Original rule filed March 17, 1987, effective June 11, 1987. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 70—Suspension, Revocation and Denial of Licenses
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-70.050 When Action Effective Immediately. This rule authorized the suspension or revocation of any license prior to a hearing in certain instances.
PURPOSE: This rescission permits the provisions currently in this rule to be moved to another rule, combining different bases for retail- er license discipline from multiple rules in that rule.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014, and section 313.260, RSMo 2000. Original rule filed April 9, 1986, effective April 19, 1986. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 169
  or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 70—Suspension, Revocation and Denial of Licenses
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-70.080 Decision of the Director. The commission is
amending sections (3) and (4).
PURPOSE: This amendment conforms this rule to proposed amend- ments combining different bases for retailer license discipline from multiple rules.
(3) [Except for] Unless the director indicates the suspension or revocation under 12 CSR 40-[70.050]40.120 is immediate, the suspension, revocation or denial shall be effective on the date the director renders his/her decision.
(4) In the case of an immediately effective suspension or revocation under 12 CSR 40-[70.050]40.120, if the decision is favorable, the licensee shall be reinstated on the date the director renders his/her decision. If the decision is a suspension for a period of time, the time between the notice of action and the decision shall be counted as part of the suspension period.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed April 9, 1986, effective April 19, 1986. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery
Chapter 80—General Rules—Scratchers Game
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-80.010 Definitions for All Scratchers Games. The commission is amending subsection (1)(H) and the authority.
PURPOSE: This amendment reflects current practice and terminolo- gy.
(1) The following definitions shall apply to 12 CSR 40-80 and 12 CSR 40-90:
(H) [Retailer] Encrypted validation code consists of [letters] a bar code found under the scratch-off coating [over the play sym- bols] on the Scratchers game ticket;
AUTHORITY: section 313.230[(2)], RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed Jan. 10, 1986, effective Jan. 20, 1986. For intervening his- tory, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery
Chapter 80—General Rules—Scratchers Game
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-80.020 Manner of Selecting Winning Scratchers Tickets[; Frequency of Drawings]—Publication and Retention. The commission is amending the rule name, rule purpose, deleting section (1), amending section (2), and adding two (2) new sections, renumbering as necessary.
PURPOSE: This amendment contains provisions already existing in other regulations but would move those provisions to this rule, elim- inating the need for two other rules and for one chapter.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this rule is to require the lottery to pub- lish and retain records setting forth the manner of determining Scratchers prize winners for specific Scratchers games.
(1) [The manner of determining winning tickets for each spe- cific game shall be set in 12 CSR 40-90.110.] The director shall publish and provide to retailers the specifics for each Scratchers game at least one (1) week prior to the start of that game, including:
(A) The theme of the game;
(B) The method of play to determine winning tickets; and (C) The value and odds of each prize level.
(2) [In addition to the manner in section (1) of this rule, the manner] The director shall retain the specifics for each Scratchers game at the lottery’s Jefferson City office for one (1) year following the last day on which prizes may be claimed for that game.
(3) Scratchers games may also include [a] random drawings for [the] prizes.
(4) Multiple prize amounts won in accordance with a Scratchers

    Page 170
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 game’s specifics may be paid on any given Scratchers ticket.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed Jan. 10, 1986, effective Jan. 20, 1986. Amended: Filed June 3, 1999, effective Dec. 30, 1999. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery
Chapter 80—General Rules—Scratchers Game
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-80.030 Limitation on Awarding Instant Prizes. The
purpose of this rule was to limit the determination of prize winners.
PURPOSE: This rescission eliminates an unnecessary cross-refer- ence between two rules and permits the provisions currently in this rule to be moved to other rules, combining different requirements relating to winning Scratchers tickets and to validation of those tick- ets into fewer rules.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed Jan. 10, 1986, effective Jan. 20, 1986. Amended: Filed June 3, 1999, effective Dec. 30, 1999. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effec- tive Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery
Chapter 80—General Rules—Scratchers Game
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-80.050 Scratchers Validation Requirements. The com- mission is amending section (1), adding section (2), and renumber- ing as necessary.
PURPOSE: This amendment conforms this rule to proposed amend-
ments reflecting current practice and terminology and to a proposed rescission moving a provision currently in another rule to this rule, combining different requirements relating to winning Scratchers tick- ets and to validation of those tickets into fewer rules.
(1) All of the following requirements must be met for a Scratchers ticket to be a valid Scratchers winning ticket:
(B) When play symbol captions are used, [E]each of the play symbols must have a play symbol caption underneath and each play symbol must agree with its play symbol caption;
(D) When play symbol captions are used, [E]each of the play symbol captions must be present in its entirety and be fully legible; (E) Each of the play symbols and [its] play symbol captions must
be printed in ink;
(G) The pack-ticket number, the ticket validation number and the
[retailer] encrypted validation code must be present in their entirety and be fully legible. The validation number shall correspond, using the lottery’s codes, to play symbols on the ticket;
(J) The ticket validation number, the pack-ticket number and the [retailer] encrypted validation code shall be printed in ink;
(M) The play symbols, the play symbol captions, the ticket valida- tion number, the encrypted validation code and the pack-ticket num- ber must be rightside up and not reversed in any manner;
(N) The ticket must have exactly one (1) play symbol caption under each rub-off spot, when play symbol captions are used, exactly one (1) pack-ticket number, exactly one (1) encrypted vali- dation code and exactly one (1) validation number;
[(Q) Each of the play symbols must be exactly one (1) of those described for that instant game as set forth in 12 CSR 40-90 of these rules and each of the play symbol captions must be exactly one (1) of those described for that instant game set forth in 12 CSR 40-90 of these rules;]
[(R)](Q) Each of the play symbols on the ticket must correspond precisely to the game specifications on file at the lottery. When play symbol captions are used, [E]each of the play symbol captions must correspond precisely to the game specifications on file at the lottery;
[(S)](R) The pack-ticket number must correspond precisely to the game specifications on file at the lottery;
[(T)](S) The encrypted validation code must correspond precisely to the game specifications on file at the lottery;
[(U)](T) The validation number must correspond precisely to the game specifications on file at the lottery;
[(V)](U) The display printing must be regular in every respect and correspond precisely with the game specifications on file at the lot- tery;
[(W)](V) The ticket must pass all additional confidential validation tests prescribed by the lottery; and
[(X)](W) The ticket must be a Scratchers ticket offered for sale by the [Missouri L]lottery during the period announced by the director for that Scratchers game.
(2) No portion of the display printing on the Scratchers ticket nor any extraneous matter whatsoever shall be usable or playable as part of the Scratchers ticket.
[(2)](3) At the direction of the [executive] director, the lottery may pay a winning claim on a damaged or mutilated ticket. This is depen- dent on the lottery being able to identify the game-pack-ticket num- ber or validation number, and a sufficient amount of the ticket play area, in order to have the ability to reconstruct the ticket, as directed by lottery procedure, to compare and successfully match it to the damaged/mutilated ticket. Provided that the ticket has not been vali- dated, the lottery’s [executive] director may authorize that the claim be paid.
[(3)](4) The director, solely at his/her option, may replace an invalid ticket with an unplayed ticket(s) of equivalent sales price for any cur- rent lottery game. In the event a defective ticket is purchased, the

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 171
  only responsibility or liability of the lottery shall be the replacement of the defective ticket with another unplayed ticket(s) of equivalent sales price from any lottery Scratchers game currently on sale.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed Jan. 10, 1986, effective Jan. 20, 1986. Amended: Filed June 3, 1999, effective Dec. 30, 1999. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery
Chapter 80—General Rules—Scratchers Game
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-80.090 Ticket Responsibility. The purpose of this rule
was to set forth the responsibility for Scratchers winning tickets.
PURPOSE: This rescission permits the provisions currently in this rule to be moved to the chapter that primarily governs tickets and prizes, combining different requirements relating to tickets and prizes into fewer rules.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed Jan. 10, 1986, effective Jan. 20, 1986. Amended: Filed June 3, 1999, effective Dec. 30, 1999. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effec- tive Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery
Chapter 80—General Rules—Scratchers Game
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-80.100 Disputes. This rule set forth the remedy for dis-
puted winning Scratchers tickets.
PURPOSE: This rescission permits the provisions currently in this
rule to be moved to the chapter that primarily governs tickets and prizes, combining different requirements relating to tickets and prizes into fewer rules.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed Jan. 10, 1986, effective Jan. 20, 1986. Amended: Filed June 3, 1999, effective Dec. 30, 1999. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effec- tive Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery
Chapter 80—General Rules—Scratchers Game
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-80.110 Compliance. This rule required customers to
agree to comply with the laws, rules and procedures of the lottery.
PURPOSE: This rescission permits the provisions currently in this rule to be moved to the chapter that primarily governs tickets and prizes, combining different requirements relating to tickets and prizes into fewer rules.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed Jan. 10, 1986, effective Jan. 20, 1986. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery
Chapter 80—General Rules—Scratchers Game
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-80.130 Retailer Conduct. This rule required tickets to be sold in ticket order within each pack and prohibited licensees or their employees from gaining an unfair advantage over the general public.

    Page 172
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 PURPOSE: This rescission permits the provisions currently in this rule to be moved to the chapter that primarily governs retailers, com- bining different requirements relating to retailers into fewer rules.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed Jan. 10, 1986, effective Jan. 20, 1986. Amended: Filed July15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 85—Draw Game
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-85.005 Definitions for All Draw Games. The commis-
sion is amending sections (6), (7), (8), (9), and (12).
PURPOSE: This amendment reflects current practice and technolo- gy.
(6) Computer gaming system. The lottery’s [draw games] comput- er gaming system consisting of draw games terminals and related equipment which communicates with the central processing equip- ment and a communication network.
(7) Draw games terminal. Computer hardware through which [a draw] player game[s lottery retailer enters the combination selected by a player and by which game tickets] selections are generated and claims may be validated.
(8) Draw games ticket. A computer [generated ticket] issued game play by a draw games lottery retailer to a player as a record for the numbers/wagers or combination of numbers/wagers the player has selected.
(9) [Number and Wager Selection Types.
(A)] Player-selected numbers/wagers. A number or wager or
group of numbers or wagers either—
(A) [s]Selected by a player in connection with a draw game[.]; or (B) [Computer-generated numbers. Numbers r]Randomly
selected by the computer gaming system. The computer-generated numbers/wagers are also known as quick picks or auto-picks.
(12) Validation number. The number [printed] displayed on the front of each draw games ticket which is used for validation.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed July 15, 1986, effective July 25, 1986. Amended: Filed May 25, 2000, effective Nov. 30, 2000. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500)
in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 85—Draw Game
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-85.010 Draw Games Contract Provisions. This rule
established certain provisions for draw games contracts.
PURPOSE: This rescission permits the provisions currently in this rule to be moved to another rule in the chapter that primarily governs retailers.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed June 4, 1986, effective June 14, 1986. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 85—Draw Game
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-85.030 Draw Games Ticket Validation Requirements. The commission is amending section (1), adding a section and renumbering and relettering as necessary.
PURPOSE: This amendment conforms this rule to current practice and technology and to a proposed amendment to the definitions for this chapter. This amendment also combines different requirements relating to ticket validation into fewer rules.
(1) All of the following requirements must be met for a draw games ticket to be a valid draw games winning ticket:
(A) The ticket validation number shall be presented in its entirety and shall correspond using the computer validation file to the select- ed numbers [printed] displayed on the ticket for the data [printed] displayed on the ticket;
(B) The ticket shall—

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 173
  1. [n]Not be altered, reconstituted, or tampered with in any manner;
[(C)]2. [The ticket shall n]Not be counterfeit or a duplicate of another winning ticket;
[(D)]3. [The ticket shall h]Have been issued by the lottery through a [draw games] retailer in an authorized manner;
[(E)]4. [The ticket shall n]Not have been canceled;
[(F)]5. [The ticket shall b]Be validated in accordance with procedures for claiming and payment of prizes;
[(G)](C) The ticket data shall—
1. [h]Have been recorded in the computer gaming system before
the drawing; and [the ticket data shall]
2. [m]Match this computer record in every respect;
[(H)](D) The player-selected numbers/wagers, the validation num- ber data, and the drawing date of an apparent winning ticket shall appear on the official file of winning tickets and [a single-lettered game grid with the exact data] may [have] not have been previ- ously paid;
[(I)](E) The ticket may not be misregistered, unregistered or unissued, or defectively printed to an extent that it cannot be processed by the lottery; and
[(J)](F) The ticket shall pass all other confidential security checks of the lottery[; and].
(2) The information printed on the ticket stock shall not be inter- preted as providing any prize or procedure other than that autho- rized by the lottery for that game.
[(K)](3) [Executive] The director may allow exceptions to the crite- ria in this rule.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo [Supp. 2014] 2016. Original rule filed July 15, 1986, effective July 25, 1986. Amended: Filed May 25, 2000, effective Nov. 30, 2000. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 85—Draw Game
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
12 CSR 40-85.050 Prize Amounts for Parimutuel Draw Games. The commission is amending this rule by adding a section and renumbering accordingly.
PURPOSE: This amendment conforms this rule to a proposed rescis- sion by moving provisions currently in another rule to this rule, com- bining different requirements relating to prize amounts into fewer rules.
(2) The allocation of the draw games winnings to the prize categories shall be announced by the [executive] director at least one (1) week
prior to the effective date of this rule and one (1) week prior to any future changes in the allocation.
(3) The prize money allocated to each of the winning prize categories will be divided equally by the number of plays determined to be win- ning plays for that prize. The [executive] director may establish a maximum or minimum prize allocation to each of the winning cate- gories.
(4) Game liability limits—
(A) When the potential aggregate prize liability, resulting from
all wagers containing a particular combination of numbers, reaches or first exceeds a prize payout level as determined by the director in a single drawing, no further wagers of that number combination shall be accepted by the lottery gaming system for that drawing.
(B) Notwithstanding subsection (A) of this section, the director may, when conditions so warrant as determined in the director’s sole discretion, establish a prize liability threshold that is higher than the published level for a single drawing.
[(4)](5) In a draw game, if no winning ticket qualifies for a prize cat- egory, the amount allocated for the prize shall be carried over and added to the prize pool of the next drawing for that particular game or will be allocated to other prize levels according to the rules of that game.
[(5)](6) The amount allocated to the first prize may be used to pur- chase securities or an annuity for each winning play. The first prize will be payable to winning tickets by an initial cash payment plus payments as established by the [executive] director. Any winning ticket owned in shares by multiple owners shall be funded as outlined above to the owners as declared on the claim form for claiming the draw games prizes. As established by the [executive] director, the first prize may be payable to winning ticket holder(s) in a lump sum cash payment equal to the cash value of the first prize annuity or a percentage of the first prize.
AUTHORITY: sections 313.220[, RSMo Supp. 2014,] and [sec- tion] 313.230, RSMo [2000] 2016. Original rule filed July 15, 1986, effective July 25, 1986. For intervening history, please consult the Code of State Regulations. Amended: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed amendment will not cost state agen- cies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed amendment will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed amendment with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 85—Draw Game
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-85.060 Further Limitations on Draw Games Prizes.
This rule set forth further requirements for winning tickets.
PURPOSE: This rescission permits some provisions to be moved to

    Page 174
Proposed Rules
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 the chapter that primarily governs tickets and prizes and other pro- visions to be moved to other rules in this chapter, combining different requirements relating to prize amounts into fewer rules.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed July 15, 1986, effective July 25, 1986. Amended: Filed Feb. 11, 1987, effective Feb. 21, 1987. Amended: Filed May 25, 2000, effec- tive Nov. 30, 2000. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 85—Draw Game
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-85.070 Disputes. This rule set forth the remedy for dis-
puted tickets.
PURPOSE: This rescission permits the provisions currently in this rule to be moved to the chapter that primarily governs tickets and prizes, combining different requirements relating to tickets and prizes into fewer rules.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed July 15, 1986, effective July 25, 1986. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 85—Draw Game
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-85.080 Payments of Prizes Up to $600 Authorized. This rule set forth the manner of payment of prizes by draw games retailers.
PURPOSE: This rescission permits some provisions currently in this
rule to be moved to the chapter that primarily governs tickets and prizes, combining different requirements relating to tickets and prizes into fewer rules.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed July 15, 1986, effective July 25, 1986. Amended: Filed Feb. 11, 1987, effective Feb. 21, 1987. Amended: Filed May 25, 2000, effec- tive Nov. 30, 2000. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 85—Draw Game
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-85.090 Cancellation of or Failure to Enter Draw Game Tickets. This rule provided for suspension or revocation of licenses for retailers who knowingly canceled a draw game ticket without being requested to do so by the player or who failed to enter the play as requested.
PURPOSE: This rescission permits the provisions currently in this rule to be moved to another rule in the chapter that primarily governs retailers, combining different bases for retailer license discipline from multiple rules in that rule.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed Sept. 15, 1986, effective Sept. 25, 1986. Amended: Filed Nov. 14, 1986, effective Nov. 24, 1986. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effec- tive Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 85—Draw Game
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-85.100 Change of Location or of Business Organization for Draw Game Retailer. This rule set forth certain criteria for a change of location or of business organization for draw game retailer.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 175
  PURPOSE: This rescission permits some provisions currently in this rule to be moved to another rule in the chapter that primarily governs retailers, combining different bases for retailer license discipline from multiple rules in that rule and clarifying retailer requirements with respect to changes of information.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed Nov. 14, 1986, effective Nov. 24, 1986. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effective Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery Chapter 85—Draw Game
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-85.170 Game Sell-Out Prohibited. This rule prevented a purchaser from covering all combinations for a jackpot/grand prize.
PURPOSE: This rescission permits the provisions currently in this rule to be moved to another rule in the chapter that primarily governs tickets and prizes, combining different requirements relating to tickets and prizes into fewer rules.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed Sept. 17, 1992, effective June 7, 1993. Amended: Filed Aug. 24, 2004, effective March 30, 2005. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effec- tive Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.
Title 12—DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Division 40—State Lottery
Chapter 90—Specific Scratchers Game Rule
PROPOSED RESCISSION
12 CSR 40-90.110 Designation of Specifics for Each Scratchers Game. This rule required the director to publish the specifics for
each Scratchers game one (1) week before the game started.
PURPOSE: This rescission moves the provisions currently in this rule to another rule in the chapter that primarily governs Scratchers, con- sistent with proposed amendments, and combines different require- ments relating to winning Scratchers tickets and to validation of those tickets into fewer rules, eliminating the need for this chapter.
AUTHORITY: section 313.220, RSMo Supp. 2014. Original rule filed April 9, 1986, effective April 19, 1986. Amended: Filed June 3, 1999, effective Dec. 30, 1999. Amended: Filed July 15, 2014, effec- tive Feb. 28, 2015. Rescinded: Filed Dec. 27, 2017.
PUBLIC COST: This proposed rescission will not cost state agencies or political subdivisions more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
PRIVATE COST: This proposed rescission will not cost private enti- ties more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate.
NOTICE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS: Anyone may file a statement in support of or in opposition to this proposed rescission with the Director of Legal Services, Missouri Lottery, PO Box 1603, Jefferson City, MO 65102-1603. To be considered, comments must be received within thirty (30) days after publication of this notice in the Missouri Register. No public hearing is scheduled.

 MISSOURI Orders of Rulemaking February 1, 2018 REGISTER Vol. 43, No. 3
  This section will contain the final text of the rules proposed by agencies. The order of rulemaking is required to con- tain a citation to the legal authority upon which the order or rulemaking is based; reference to the date and page or pages where the notice of proposed rulemaking was published in the Missouri Register; an explanation of any change between the text of the rule as contained in the notice of proposed rulemaking and the text of the rule as finally adopted, togeth- er with the reason for any such change; and the full text of any section or subsection of the rule as adopted which has been changed from that contained in the notice of proposed rulemaking. The effective date of the rule shall be not less than thirty (30) days after the date of publication of the revi- sion to the Code of State Regulations.
The agency is also required to make a brief summary of the general nature and extent of comments submitted in support of or opposition to the proposed rule and a concise summary of the testimony presented at the hearing, if any, held in connection with the rulemaking, together with a con- cise summary of the agency’s findings with respect to the merits of any such testimony or comments which are opposed in whole or in part to the proposed rule. The ninety- (90-) day period during which an agency shall file its order of rulemaking for publication in the Missouri Register begins either: 1) after the hearing on the proposed rulemaking is held; or 2) at the end of the time for submission of comments to the agency. During this period, the agency shall file with the secretary of state the order of rulemaking, either putting the proposed rule into effect, with or without further changes, or withdrawing the proposed rule.
  Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 120—New Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-120.011 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1145–1146). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments from five (5) manufactured hous- ing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff) and the Office of the Public Counsel (Public Counsel). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel
representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments in other rules being promulgated simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported these amendments. Staff also proposed a change to the rule. Public Counsel made a general comment about citation.
COMMENT #1: Public Counsel suggested in a written comment that “Chapter 127” be identified as an administrative rule so that it was not mistaken as a statute.
RESPONSE: Public Counsel may have been commenting on a draft of the amended rule. The suggested change was made prior to pub- lication.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, because the changes proposed to this rule relate only to defining terms and adding citations, no changes have been made as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #4: An “official statement” was received from the MMHA regarding the proposed amendments to all the manufactured housing rules. However, MMHA referred only to 4 CSR 240- 120.011. Specifically, with regard to this rule, MMHA indicated that it disagreed with the private cost statement. MMHA suggested that this amendment would cost small businesses thousands of dollars. RESPONSE: The amendments being made to this rule will add a citation to 4 CSR 240-127, replace the word “code” with “commis- sion rules” and remove defined terms that will be placed in another chapter of manufactured housing regulations. Thus, the private cost of this particular rule continues to be estimated at no more than five hundred dollars ($500) in the aggregate. Therefore, no changes have been made to this rule as a result of this comment. The commission will consider MMHA’s written comment in the context of other man- ufactured housing rules being amended simultaneously with this rule.
COMMENT #5: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the
176

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 177
  rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #6: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to streamline all of the commission’s manufactured housing regula- tions. These particular amendments would consolidate most defini- tions into one (1) location. Staff also recommended deleting the word “shall” in section (1) as it was superfluous.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff that consolidating these definitions will stream- line the regulations. It will also adopt the recommended deletion of the word “shall” in section (1).
4 CSR 240-120.011 Definitions
(1) The following definitions, as well as those set out in section 700.010, RSMo, and 4 CSR 240-127 apply to this chapter:
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 120—New Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-120.031 Administration and Enforcement is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1146). No changes have been made to the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in
the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to clearly set out the powers and responsibilities that are and are not delegated to the Program Manager.
RESPONSE: The commission agrees with staff that this proposed amendment will clarify the Program Manager’s powers and respon- sibilities.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 120—New Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-120.060 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1146–1147). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments

 Page 178
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes to this particular rule have been made as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule with some further changes. Staff explained that the amendments as originally proposed would have corrected the title of the individual responsible for the commission’s manufactured housing department from “director” to “manager.” Staff explained that the proposed amendments would have also required the manager to file a com- plaint with the commission as the method for rejecting an application for registration or refusing to renew or suspend a registration. Staff also explained that the proposed amendments would require a manu- factured housing dealer to keep a bill of sale on file for five (5) years. Staff proposed an additional amendment in furtherance of the Governor’s Executive Order 17-03, to make the rule less restrictive by making the inspection of books and records discretionary. RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff and will make the rule less restrictive by amending the language as suggested.
4 CSR 240-120.060 Inspections
(1) The manager may inspect the books, records, inventory, and
premises of manufacturers and dealers of new manufactured homes, from time-to-time during normal business hours, to ascertain if a manufacturer or dealer is complying with Chapter 700, RSMo as it relates to new manufactured homes, this chapter, the federal stan- dards, and the Housing and Urban Development regulations and also to ascertain if grounds exist under section 700.100, RSMo to file a complaint with the commission to reject an application for registra- tion filed under section 700.090, RSMo or to refuse to renew, sus- pend, revoke, or place on probation a registration which has been made under section 700.090, RSMo.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 120—New Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-120.065 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1147–1150). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. In addition, staff offered the written comment of Missouri Senator Sandy Crawford which was received after the comment period closed but prior to the hearing. The industry representatives and Senator Crawford opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and generally sup- ported those amendments. However, staff also proposed additional significant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 179
  that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, and specifically stating that the changes with regard to fees and “re-inspections” would add excessive regulations on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: Numerous changes have been made to this rule in response to the industry, including Mr. DeVine, and staff comments. Specific changes make the fee implementation discretionary after consultation with the staff director and reports to the commission of the monetary effect of the changes on the industry.
COMMENT #4: Senator Crawford, Mr. Smith, Mr. AuBuchon, Mr. Crump, Mr. Ferrell, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Hagar, and the MMHA made written and oral comments opposing the amendments for similar rea- sons. In general, the commenters stated that the amendments were burdensome to the industry, would ultimately cause additional expense to the consumers, and would deter manufacturing in the state. Specifically, the industry objected to the one- (1-) year and two- (2-) year inspection periods as set out in proposed subsections (2)(B) and (2)(C). Some of the industry representatives stated that the period for the manager to conduct his inspections should be limited to one hundred twenty (120) days, although the general consensus of the industry was that there should be no more than one (1) year to conduct an inspection.
The commenters stated that most “stick built” homes in Missouri do not have to comply with any building codes and at most have only a one- (1-) year warranty. They explained that manufactured homes must comply with Housing and Urban Development (HUD) regula- tions on building, which are very strict. For these reasons, the man- ufactured housing industry stated it is at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, the manufactured housing representatives stated that allowing the manager to conduct an initial setup inspection up to two (2) years after the home was setup was too long. They stated that they had no control over changes to the yard or home that homeowners would do or the effects that weather would have on the setup and thus, it would be unfair to have an inspection after one hundred twen- ty (120) days. The industry representatives stated that, in essence, this was requiring the dealers to give the consumers a two- (2-) year warranty on the home.
Additionally, the commenters stated that Missouri does more inspections and enforcement than its neighboring states, which only inspect homes due to consumer complaints and not on their own ini- tiative. The commenters indicated that in general the industry wanted the inspection and regulatory process, but that the inspections should be in response to complaints, not be done for the sake of creating work for the inspectors. Further, the commenters stated that under the current rules, the industry was accelerating their reporting to the manager and, therefore, the manager should have the information necessary to conduct inspections sooner.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion has considered the comments with regard to the one- (1-) year and two- (2-) year inspection periods. The manager currently only inspects about forty percent (40%) of new manufactured homes. The
commission finds that these inspections are a benefit and enhance safety for the manufactured house homeowners. Thus, the commis- sion determines that a one- (1-) year period to conduct an initial setup inspection is not unreasonable. Further, subsection (2)(C) is being amended such that the two- (2-) year period only applies to inspec- tions related to code violations. The commission finds that con- sumers will be protected from potentially dangerous code violations if the timeframe to conduct an initial setup inspection based on a written consumer complaint remains at two (2) years. However, to reduce the potential burden on the industry, the commission will fur- ther amend subsection (2)(C) to limit fees and inspections to situa- tions where an initial inspection was not performed.
COMMENT #5: Senator Crawford, Mr. Smith, Mr. AuBuchon, Mr. Crump, Mr. Ferrell, Mr. Taylor, and the MMHA opposed changing the imposition of fees for not complying with the statutes and regu- lations from discretionary to mandatory. The commenters stated that this change was too harsh and was unnecessary. The commenters stat- ed that the industry had a few bad actors that needed to have regula- tory fees applied, but the majority of the industry operated within the requirements and were upstanding businesses. Several of the com- menters cited to a reduction in consumer complaints since training and licensing for home installers has been implemented in Missouri in 2009.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, as staff has suggested in its comments set out below, the enforcement of fees or discipline should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consultation with the staff director. During this consultation, potential mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s respon- siveness to commission requirements should be considered. The commission has also deleted a proposed requirement for the manager to open an investigation in subsection (1)(D). Further, in response to the industry’s concern that inspections not just be done in order to employ inspectors and in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commission determines that the manager should track any fees assessed or waived under subsection (1)(D) and paragraph (2)(A)1. of the rule and provide a report on a quarterly basis to the commission. Therefore, the commission has further amended subsection (1)(D) and paragraph (2)(A)1. of the rule.
COMMENT #6: Staff filed comments generally supporting the amendments, but also suggested some changes due to input from the industry and due to Executive Order 17-03. Staff explained the rea- son for the original proposed amendments was to comply with a report of the state auditor by removing the discretion to impose fees from the manager and placing it with the commission. The reporting period for submitting property locator forms was also extended from forty-eight (48) hours to five (5) days and the enforcement of the fee for late filing became mandatory with a procedure for waiver by the commission. After meeting with industry representatives and consid- ering their comments and Executive Order 17-03, staff recommended that the mandatory nature of the fees be removed and the discretion be left with the manager, but only after consultation with the staff director and consideration of specific criteria set out in the rule. Staff also recommended that the one- (1-) year and two- (2-) inspec- tion periods remain; however, it suggested language to clarify that the two- (2-) year inspection period was only applicable if there had been no initial inspection. Staff stated that this would avoid fees and inspections where an initial inspection had been completed. RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: In consideration of the comments of staff in conjunction with the comments of the industry representatives, the commission determines that the rule should be further amended.

 Page 180
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  The commission determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, as staff has suggested, the enforcement of fees or discipline should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consultation with the staff director. During this consultation, poten- tial mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to com- mission requirements should be considered. Further, in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commission determines that the manager should track any fees assessed or waived under subsection (1)(D) and paragraph (2)(A)1. of the rule and provide a report on a quarterly basis to the commis- sion. Therefore, the commission has further amended subsection (1)(D) and paragraph (2)(A)1. of the rule.
The commission has also considered the comments with regard to the one- (1-) year and two- (2-) year inspection periods. The manager currently only inspects about forty percent (40%) of new manufac- tured homes. The commission believes that these inspections are a benefit and enhance safety for the manufactured house homeowners. Thus, the commission determines that a one- (1-) year period to con- duct an initial set-up inspection is not unreasonable. Further, the commission finds that consumers will be protected from potentially dangerous code violations if the timeframe to conduct an inspection based on a written consumer complaint, where no initial inspection was completed, remains at two (2) years. Therefore, to reduce the potential burden on the industry, the commission will further amend subsection (2)(C) to avoid duplicate fees and inspections.
COMMENT #7: Mr. Crump also commented that the reporting requirements need to be further reduced as they were too onerous. RESPONSE: The commission is in the process of implementing a new computerized reporting system that should greatly simplify reporting requirements. Therefore, the commission will not make any changes to the rule at this time as a result of this comment.
4 CSR 240-120.065 Manufactured Home Dealer Setup Responsibilities
(1) Manufactured Home Dealer Setup.
(C) If a dealer fails to arrange for the proper initial setup of a man-
ufactured home, the commission may discipline the dealer’s registra- tion by suspending, revoking, or placing the registration on proba- tion, pursuant to the provisions of section 700.100, RSMo, if the manager provides evidence to the commission, incident to an inspec- tion, under subsections (2)(B) or (2)(C) of this rule, of set up defi- ciencies.
(D) The manager, in consultation with the commission staff direc- tor, after attempting to contact the entity involved and documenting consideration of potential mitigating factors, including, but not limit- ed to, the number of similar non-compliance issues, circumstances beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to com- mission requirements, may assess a two hundred dollar ($200) inspection fee to dealers that fail to hire commission licensed installers to set up a home. The manager will track fees assessed or waived under this provision, along with any documented considera- tion of mitigating factors, and compile a quarterly report summariz- ing such information for review by the commission.
(2) Manufactured Home Inspections.
(A) A dealer who sells a new manufactured home shall submit to
the manufactured housing and modular units program a property locator indicating the destination of the home within five (5) business days of the date the home leaves the dealer’s location or the manu- facturer’s location if the home is shipped directly to the consumer. For multi-section homes the five (5) business days begins when the first section leaves the dealer’s or manufacturer’s location. The deal- er shall use the property locator form provided by the commission.
1. The manager, in consultation with the commission staff direc- tor, after attempting to contact the entity involved and documenting consideration of potential mitigating factors, including, but not limit- ed to, the number of similar non-compliance issues, circumstances beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to com- mission requirements, may assess a fifty dollar ($50) per home inspection fee to dealers who fail to submit the property locator with- in five (5) business days from the due date. The manager will track fees assessed or waived under this provision, along with any docu- mented consideration of mitigating factors, and compile a quarterly report summarizing such information for review by the commission.
2. The manager may commence an action to discipline a deal- er’s registration for failure to timely report property locators or make payment upon property locator home inspection fees if the commis- sion has assessed no fewer than two (2) property locator home inspection fees against the dealer within the previous twelve (12) months of the due date of the property locator at issue.
(C) Within two (2) years of the delivery date of the home to the consumer, if no initial inspection was performed pursuant to subsec- tion (2)(B) of this rule, the manager may conduct an inspection of the home for code violations upon the receipt of a formal written com- plaint by the consumer.
(E) Should an initial inspection identify no code violations, or any re-inspection verify that corrections have been made to address code violations identified on an initial inspection report, the manager shall issue a notice of completion indicating no outstanding issues remain to be addressed. Such notice shall be issued to each responsible enti- ty. A complainant shall also be issued a notice of completion should an initial inspection occur subsequent to a consumer complaint. Such notice shall be issued within twenty (20) days from the date of the final inspection or re-inspection. This notice is intended to notify parties when the manager has completed an inspection process, and will not serve to indemnify any responsible party from any future lia- bility.
(3) Manufacturers shall mail or deliver to the manager by the tenth day of each month a report that identifies, by make, model, and serial number, the new manufactured homes to which certification labels have been affixed since the previous report. Such report shall also include the certification label number for each such manufactured home.
REVISED PRIVATE COST: The cost to private entities is estimated to be twenty-three thousand four hundred dollars ($23,400) in the aggregate over a three- (3-) year life of the rule. The private entity cost for three (3) years was previously estimated as thirty-two thou- sand dollars ($32,000).

 February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 181
   
 Page 182
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
Orders of Rulemaking
   
  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 183
  Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 120—New Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-120.070 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1151). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments from four (4) manufactured hous- ing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be bur- densome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and generally supported those amend- ments. However, staff also proposed significant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Crump commented that the reporting require- ments need to be further reduced as they were too onerous. RESPONSE: The commission is in the process of implementing a new computerized reporting system that should greatly simplify reporting requirements. Therefore, the commission will not make any changes to the rule at this time as a result of this comment.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, because the commission is removing its reporting require- ment from this rule and the remaining requirements are federal requirements, no changes have been made as a result of these com- ments.
COMMENT #4: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #5: Staff filed comments suggesting that section (2) be deleted. Staff stated that it was recommending putting the revised language from section (2) in rule 4 CSR 240-120.065, and therefore, it was no longer needed. Staff also suggested deleting section (1) of the rule because it was merely a restatement of a federal requirement. RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff that section (2) should be deleted as the lan- guage is better suited for rule 4 CSR 240-120.065 and the commis- sion has made the corresponding change to that rule. Therefore, the commission will delete section (2). However, because section (1) was not published for amendment, the commission cannot delete that sec- tion at this time. Thus, the commission will begin a new rulemaking process to rescind this rule once these changes are final. The com- mission will amend the purpose of the rule to reflect the deletion of section (2).
4 CSR 240-120.070 Manufacturers and Dealers Reports
PURPOSE: This rule provides that manufacturers and dealers shall file reports with the secretary of Housing and Urban Development as may be required under Section 614 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 5413.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 120—New Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-120.080 Commission Reports is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1151). No changes have been made to the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received one (1) written comment regarding this rule from the staff of the commission. Staff explained the original amendment and pro- posed complete rescission of the rule as unnecessary.
COMMENT #1: Staff commented that originally, amendments were proposed to change the title of the person responsible for the pro- gram. However, upon further review of the rules in conjunction with

 Page 184
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  Executive Order 17-03, staff recommends that this rule be rescinded in its entirety because it simply restates a federal requirement imposed on the manager.
RESPONSE: The commission cannot rescind the rule at this time, because it was not noticed as a rescission in the Missouri Register. Thus, the commission will make the original proposed changes and consider a rescission once these changes are final.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 120—New Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-120.085 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1151–1155). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. In addition, staff offered the written comment of Missouri Senator Sandy Crawford which was received after the comment period closed but prior to the hearing. The industry representatives and Senator Crawford opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and generally sup- ported those amendments. However, staff also proposed additional significant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously
promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, and specifically stating that the changes with regard to fees and “re-inspections” would add excessive regulations on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: Numerous changes have been made to this rule in response to the industry, including Mr. DeVine, and staff comments. Specific changes make the fee implementation discretionary after consultation with the staff director and reports to the commission of the monetary effect of the changes on the industry.
COMMENT #4: Senator Crawford, Mr. Smith, Mr. AuBuchon, Mr. Crump, Mr. Ferrell, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Hagar, and the MMHA made written and oral comments opposing the amendments for similar rea- sons. In general, the commenters stated that the amendments were burdensome to the industry, would ultimately cause additional expense to the consumers, and would deter manufacturing in the state. Specifically, the industry objected to the one- (1-) year and two- (2-) year inspection periods as set out in 4 CSR 240-120.065, and those comments were addressed in that rule. The industry also expressed concern for having a home setup inspected initially by the manager on his own volition and then possibly being subject to a sec- ond inspection because of a customer complaint.
Additionally, the commenters stated that Missouri does more inspections and enforcement than its neighboring states, which only inspect homes due to consumer complaints and not on their own ini- tiative. The commenters indicated that in general the industry wanted the inspection and regulatory process, but that the inspections should be in response to complaints, not be done for the sake of creating work for the inspectors.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion has considered the comments of the industry in conjunction with the comments of staff. Subsections (1)(C) and (2)(B) are being amended to remove the mandatory nature of the fees and creating a process for consideration of specific criteria by the manager in con- sultation with the staff director. Additionally, in order to maintain proper oversight of the implementation of fees, the commission is adding reporting requirements for the manager.
COMMENT #5: Senator Crawford, Mr. Smith, Mr. AuBuchon, Mr. Crump, Mr. Ferrell, Mr. Taylor, and the MMHA opposed changing the imposition of fees for not complying with the statutes and regu- lations from discretionary to mandatory. The commenters stated that this change was too harsh and was unnecessary. The commenters stated that the industry had a few bad actors that needed to have reg- ulatory fees applied, but the majority of the industry operated within the requirements and were upstanding businesses. Several of the commenters cited to a reduction in consumer complaints since train- ing and licensing for home installers has been implemented in Missouri in 2009.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, as staff has suggested in its comments set out below, the enforcement of fees or discipline should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consultation with the staff director. During this

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 185
  consultation, potential mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and responsiveness to commission requirements should be considered. Further, in response to the industry’s concern that inspections not just be done in order to employ inspectors and in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commission determines that the manager should track any fees assessed or waived under subsections (1)(C) and (2)(B) of the rule and provide a report on a quarterly basis to the commission. Therefore, the commission has further amended subsections (1)(C) and (2)(B) of the rule.
COMMENT #6: Staff filed comments generally supporting the amendments, but also suggested some changes due to input from the industry and due to Executive Order 17-03. Staff explained the rea- son for the original proposed amendments was to comply with a report of the state auditor by removing the discretion to impose fees from the manager and placing it with the commission. A fee schedule was implemented to add clarity where multiple inspections were needed. Additionally, a section was added for suspension of a regis- tration for failure to pay the re-inspection fees and make corrective action and a section was added to govern the process of requesting a waiver of fees.
After meeting with industry representatives and considering their comments and Executive Order 17-03, staff recommended that minor wording changes be made to proposed subsection (1)(B) and sections (5), (6), (7), and (8). Staff recommended that subsection (5) be changed to remove the reference to a commission form. Staff recom- mended changes to section (7) to remove a sentence detailing the length of suspension and recommended deleting section (9) because it was unnecessary. Additionally, at the hearing and in written com- ments, staff recommended that proposed subsections (1)(C) and (2)(B) be changed so that the mandatory nature of the fees is removed and discretion remains with the manager. Staff also recommended that the manager be required to consult with the staff director and that the rule set out specific criteria to be considered.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: In consideration of the comments of staff in conjunction with the comments of the industry representatives, the commission determines that the rule should be further amended.
The commission determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, as staff has suggested, the enforcement of fees or discipline should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consultation with the staff director. During this consultation, poten- tial mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and responsiveness to commission requirements should be considered. Further, in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commis- sion determines that the manager should track any fees assessed or waived under subsections (1)(C) and (2)(B) of the rule and provide a report on a quarterly basis to the commission. Therefore, the com- mission has further amended those subsections.
The commission has also considered the other changes suggested by staff and finds them to be appropriate. Thus, the commission will further amend proposed subsection (1)(C) and proposed sections (6), (7), and (8) and will delete proposed section (9). The commission rejects certain language changes proposed by staff because further clarification is needed. The commission adds clarifying language so that some sections are reworded and unnecessary language is deleted. Additionally, proposed section (5) is deleted and the following sec- tions are renumbered.
4 CSR 240-120.085 Re-Inspection and Re-Inspection Fee
(1) Re-inspections subsequent to routine inspections of new manufac- tured homes.
(C) The manager, in consultation with the commission staff direc-
tor, after attempting to contact the entity involved and documenting consideration of potential mitigating factors, including, but not limit- ed to, the number of similar non-compliance issues, circumstances beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to com- mission requirements, may assess re-inspection fee(s) of two hundred dollars ($200) for any re-inspection subsequent to the first re-inspec- tion. The fee is charged to the dealer, installer, or the manufacturer who was responsible for making the corrections and completing the corrections. The manager will track fees assessed or waived under this provision, along with any documented consideration of mitigat- ing factors, and compile a quarterly report summarizing such infor- mation for review by the commission.
(2) Re-inspections subsequent to a consumer complaint.
(B) The manager, in consultation with the commission staff direc- tor, after attempting to contact the entity involved and documenting consideration of potential mitigating factors, including, but not limit- ed to, the number of similar non-compliance issues, circumstances beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to com- mission requirements, may assess the dealer, installer, or the manu- facturer, or each entity, a fee for the re-inspection(s) if the dealer, installer, or the manufacturer responsible for making the required corrections fails to complete the required corrections within sixty (60) days of receipt of a consumer complaint. The fee shall not be charged to the dealer, installer, or the manufacturer who is responsi- ble for making the required corrections if, during the re-inspection, it is found that the required corrections have been corrected within sixty (60) days of the initial inspection. The manager will track fees assessed or waived under this provision, along with any documented consideration of mitigating factors, and compile a quarterly report
summarizing such information for review by the commission.
(3) The re-inspection shall address all violations listed in the initial inspection report. A copy of the re-inspection report shall be for- warded to the manufacturer, installer, or dealer, or each responsible entity, and the consumer, if applicable, within ten (10) days from the date of the re-inspection, for corrective action as well as an invoice for the re-inspection fee, if applicable.
(5) The fee for all inspections requested by third parties is four hun- dred dollars ($400), except the fee for third party inspection requests for the purpose of serial number verification is two hundred dollars ($200). Requests for inspections by third parties must be submitted in writing to the manufactured housing and modular units program along with the associated inspection fee. Licensed manufacturers or dealers are not considered third parties.
(6) If the manufacturer, installer, or dealer has not paid the re-inspec- tion fee within thirty (30) days of the prescribed date, the manager may file a complaint and the commission may suspend the manufac- turer, installer, or dealer certificate or registration.
(7) The following situations constitute grounds for the denial, revo- cation, or placing on probation of a manufacturer, installer, or dealer certificate of registration:
(A) Failure to pay a re-inspection fee by the prescribed due date for two (2) consecutive months; or
(B) Failure to pay a re-inspection fee by the prescribed due date for any four (4) of the preceding twelve (12) months.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 120—New Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:

 Page 186
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  4 CSR 240-120.090 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1156–1158). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from two (2) manufactured housing industry representatives: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); and Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hear- ing testimony was received from five (5) commenters about this rule: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice- President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be bur- densome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and generally supported those amend- ments. However, staff also proposed additional significant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, but not specifically the proposed changes to this rule.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to this and other manufactured housing rules in response to industry and staff com- ments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #4: Staff filed comments generally supporting the amendments, but also made suggestions for additional changes. Staff explained that the original amendments propose expanding from eight (8) days to fifteen (15) days the time within which the manager
can perform an inspection after receiving an application to alter new manufactured homes. Staff also suggested removing subsections (2)(A)–(D) in order to remove information required on the commis- sion form, and suggested removing the form from the rule. Staff sug- gested adding a reference to the commission’s website where the form is located.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: In consideration of the comments of staff the commission determines that the rule should be further amended as staff suggests. Therefore, the commis- sion will further amend section (2).
4 CSR 240-120.090 Inspection and Approval of Alterations
(2) Manager approval of alterations shall be requested by a written application executed on a commission approved form available on the commission’s website at www.psc.mo.gov, or from the manager upon request. Applications may be submitted only by the person or entity who owns the new manufactured home to which the alteration for which approval is sought has been made.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 120—New Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-120.100 Code is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1158). No changes have been made to the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 187
  the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to add the federal statutory citation of the law to be applied to new manufactured homes.
RESPONSE: The commission agrees that the amendment is appro- priate.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 120—New Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-120.110 Complaints and Review of Manager Action(s) is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1158–1159). No changes have been made to the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This pro- posed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors
of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to add the federal statutory citation of the law to be applied and to change the name of the head of the manufactured housing program at the commission.
RESPONSE: The commission agrees that the amendments are appro- priate.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 120—New Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:

 Page 188
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  4 CSR 240-120.120 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1159). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from two (2) manufactured housing industry representatives: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); and Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hear- ing testimony was received from five (5) commenters about this rule: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice- President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be bur- densome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and generally supported those amend- ments. However, staff also proposed additional significant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, but not specifically the proposed changes to this rule.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to this and other manufactured housing rules in response to industry and staff com- ments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #4: Staff filed comments supporting the amendments, but also made suggestions for an additional change to make the denial of an application discretionary instead of mandatory. Staff explained that the original amendments were also proposed to remove
the mandatory nature of the rule.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: In consideration of the comments of staff the commission determines that the rule should be further amended as staff suggests. Therefore, the commis- sion will further amend section (3).
4 CSR 240-120.120 Criteria for Good Moral Character for Registration of Manufactured Home Dealers
(3) If the commission finds an applicant lacks good moral character as outlined in subsection (1)(A) or (1)(B) of this rule, the commis- sion may deny the application for registration.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 120—New Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-120.130 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1159–1160). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from six (6) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice- President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and generally supported those amendments. However, staff also proposed additional signifi- cant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 189
  gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, and specifically stating that the changes with regard to fees would add excessive regulations on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: Numerous changes have been made to this rule in response to the industry, including Mr. DeVine, and staff comments. Specific changes make the fee implementation discretionary after consultation with the staff director and reports to the commission of the monetary effect of the changes on the industry.
COMMENT #4: Mr. Smith, Mr. AuBuchon, Mr. Crump, Mr. Taylor, and the MMHA opposed changing the imposition of fees for not complying with the statutes and regulations from discretionary to mandatory. The commenters stated that this change was too harsh and was unnecessary. The commenters stated that the industry had a few bad actors that needed to have regulatory fees applied, but the major- ity of the industry operated within the requirements and were upstanding businesses. Several of the commenters cited to a reduction in consumer complaints since training and licensing for home installers has been implemented in Missouri in 2009.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, as staff has suggested in its comments set out below, the enforcement of fees or discipline should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consultation with the staff director. During this consultation, potential mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and responsiveness to commission requirements should be considered. Further, in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commission determines that the manager should track any fees assessed or waived under this rule and provide a report on a quarterly basis to the commission. Therefore, the commission has further amended proposed section (8) and deleted proposed section (11).
COMMENT #5: Staff filed comments generally supporting the amendments, but also suggested some changes due to input from the industry and due to Executive Order 17-03. Staff explained the rea- son for the original proposed amendments was to comply with a report of the state auditor by removing the discretion to impose fees from the manager and placing it with the commission. Additionally, as originally proposed, actions against a dealer’s registration were added for monthly reports not filed within sixty and ninety days of the due dates. After meeting with industry representatives and con- sidering their comments and Executive Order 17-03, staff recom- mended that the mandatory nature of the fees be removed and the dis- cretion be left with the manager, but only after consultation with the staff director and consideration of specific criteria set out in the rule. Staff also recommended wording changes and a reference to where the form was located in section (2) and the removal of sections (5) and (7) as they duplicated what was on the form. Staff also recom- mended the deletion of proposed section (11) because it was not needed when the other changes were made.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: In consideration of the comments of staff in conjunction with the comments of the industry representatives, the commission determines that the rule should be further amended.
The commission determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, as staff has suggested, the enforcement of fees or discipline should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consultation with the staff director. During this consultation, poten- tial mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to com- mission requirements should be considered. Further, in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commission determines that the manager should track any fees assessed or waived under this rule and provide a report on a quarterly basis to the commission.
The commission also accepts the other changes suggested by staff. Therefore, the commission has further amended proposed sections (2) and (8), deleted proposed sections (5), (7), and (11), and renum- bered the sections accordingly.
COMMENT #6: Mr. Crump also commented that the reporting requirements need to be further reduced as they were too onerous. RESPONSE: The commission is in the process of implementing a new computerized reporting system that should greatly simplify reporting requirements. Therefore, the commission will not make any changes to the rule at this time as a result of this comment.
4 CSR 240-120.130 Monthly Report Requirement for Registered Manufactured Home Dealers
(2) Manufactured home dealers may only use the commission’s form for monthly sales reports. This form may be obtained from the Missouri Public Service Commission, PO Box 360, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or at the website http://psc.mo.gov.
(5) The manager may reject monthly sales reports that are incomplete and require dealer’s to submit corrected reports.
(6) The manager, in consultation with the commission staff director, after attempting to contact the entity and documenting consideration of potential mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the num- ber of similar non-compliance issues, circumstances beyond the enti- ty’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to commission require- ments, may assess a late submission fee of fifty dollars ($50) against a manufactured home dealer for each monthly sales report filed sixty (60) days after the due date. The manager will track fees assessed or waived under this provision, along with any documented considera- tion, and compile a quarterly report summarizing such information for review by the commission.
(7) The commission may suspend the dealer’s registration for any report not submitted within sixty (60) days of the due date.
(8) Failure to submit a completed monthly report within ninety (90) days of due date and/or to pay any required fees could result in revo- cation of the dealer’s registration under section 700.098, RSMo.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 120—New Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:

 Page 190
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  4 CSR 240-120.140 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1160–1161). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from six (6) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice- President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and generally supported those amendments. However, staff also proposed additional signifi- cant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Mr. DeVine and Mr. Taylor filed written comments opposing the rule changes in general, and specifically stating that the changes with regard to fees would add excessive regulations on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: The fee and reporting structure for this rule have not changed because of the amendments. Additionally, the commission, at the suggestion of staff discussed below, is adding a provision of granting waiver of the fees. Therefore, no additional changes are made in response to Mr. DeVine’s comment.
COMMENT #4: Staff filed comments generally supporting the
amendments, but also suggested some changes. Staff explained the reason for the original proposed amendments was to clarify the intent of the rule and to add a section setting out a process for the manager to request waiver of fees from the commission. Staff recommended changes to section (2) and proposed sections (4) and (5) to remove restrictive language.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: In consideration of the comments of staff in conjunction with the comments of the industry representatives, the commission determines that the rule should be further amended. The commission accepts the clarifica- tions made by staff to proposed sections (4) and (5). However, the commission rejects the wording change to section (2) as it does not add clarity or make the provision less restrictive. Therefore, the com- mission has further amended proposed sections (4) and (5).
COMMENT #5: Mr. Crump also commented that the reporting requirements need to be further reduced as they were too onerous. RESPONSE: The commission is in the process of implementing a new computerized reporting system that should greatly simplify reporting requirements. Therefore, the commission will not make any changes to the rule at this time as a result of this comment.
4 CSR 240-120.140 New Manufactured Home Manufacturer’s Inspection Fee
(4) The following situations constitute grounds for the denial, revo- cation, or placing on probation of a manufacturer’s certificate of reg- istration:
(A) Failure to pay the inspection fee by the prescribed due date for two (2) consecutive months; or
(B) Failure to pay the inspection fee by the prescribed due date for any four (4) of the preceding twelve (12) months.
(5) The manager shall submit to the commission any written request for a waiver of fees identified in this section, and the commission may grant such a waiver for good cause shown.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 121—Pre-Owned Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission withdraws a proposed amendment as follows:
4 CSR 240-121.010 Definitions is withdrawn.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the proposed amend- ment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1161). This proposed amendment is withdrawn.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding the entire package of rule amendments filed simultaneously from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff) and the Office of the Public

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 191
  Counsel (Public Counsel). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. In addition, staff offered the written comment of Missouri Senator Sandy Crawford which was received after the comment period closed but prior to the hearing. The industry representatives and Senator Crawford opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. In written comments, staff explained the reason for the original proposed amendments and generally supported those amendments with changes. However, at hearing, staff proposed rescinding the entire chapter of rules rather than amending. Public Counsel made a comment about citation.
COMMENT #1: Public Counsel suggested in a written comment that “Chapter 127” be identified as an administrative rule so that it was not mistaken as a statute.
RESPONSE: Public Counsel may have been commenting on a draft of the amended rule. The suggested change was made prior to publi- cation.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff and the industry representatives testified at the hearing that 4 CSR 240-121 was a potentially unnecessary chapter of regulations because it pertained to pre-owned manufactured homes, which cannot practically be brought up to code by the manufactured housing industry. Therefore, staff and the industry representative rec- ommended that this chapter of rules be rescinded.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff and the industry representatives. However, because this chapter cannot be rescinded without going through the proper statutory and administrative processes, the commission will withdraw these proposed amendments and begin a new rulemaking to consider the rescission of this chapter of regulations.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 121—Pre-Owned Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission withdraws a proposed amendment as follows:
4 CSR 240-121.020 Administration and Enforcement is withdrawn.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the proposed amend- ment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1161–1162). This proposed amendment is withdrawn.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding the entire package of rule amendments filed simultaneously from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. In addition, staff offered the written comment of Missouri Senator Sandy Crawford which was received after the comment period closed but prior to the hearing. The industry representatives and Senator Crawford opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. In written comments, staff explained the reason for the original proposed amendments and generally supported those amendments with changes. However, at hearing, staff proposed rescinding the entire chapter of rules rather than amending.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Staff and the industry representatives testified at the hearing that 4 CSR 240-121 was a potentially unnecessary chapter of regulations because it pertained to pre-owned manufactured homes, which cannot practically be brought up to code by the manufactured

 Page 192
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  housing industry. Therefore, staff and the industry representative rec- ommended that this chapter of rules be rescinded.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff and the industry representatives. However, because this chapter cannot be rescinded without going through the proper statutory and administrative processes, the commission will withdrawal these proposed amendments and begin a new rulemaking to consider the rescission of this chapter of regulations.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 121—Pre-Owned Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission withdraws a proposed amendment as follows:
4 CSR 240-121.030 Seals is withdrawn.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the proposed amend- ment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1162–1163). This proposed amendment is withdrawn.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding the entire package of rule amendments filed simultaneously from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. In addition, staff offered the written comment of Missouri Senator Sandy Crawford which was received after the comment period closed but prior to the hearing. The industry representatives and Senator Crawford opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. In written comments, staff explained the reason for the original proposed amendments and generally supported those amendments with changes. However, at hearing, staff proposed rescinding the entire chapter of rules rather than amending.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hear- ing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process
for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Staff and the industry representatives testified at the hearing that 4 CSR 240-121 was a potentially unnecessary chapter of regulations because it pertained to pre-owned manufactured homes, which cannot practically be brought up to code by the manufactured housing industry. Therefore, staff and the industry representative rec- ommended that this chapter of rules be rescinded.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff and the industry representatives. However, because this chapter cannot be rescinded without going through the proper statutory and administrative processes, the commission will withdraw these proposed amendments and begin a new rulemaking to consider the rescission of this chapter of regulations.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 121—Pre-Owned Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission withdraws a proposed amendment as follows:
4 CSR 240-121.040 Inspection of Dealer Books, Records, Inventory and Premises is withdrawn.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the proposed amend- ment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1163). This proposed amendment is withdrawn.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding the entire package of rule amendments filed simultaneously from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. In addition, staff offered the written comment of Missouri Senator Sandy Crawford which was received after the comment period closed but prior to the hearing. The industry representatives and Senator Crawford opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. In written comments, staff explained the reason for the original proposed amendments and generally supported those amendments with changes. However, at hearing, staff proposed rescinding the

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 193
  entire chapter of rules rather than amending.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Staff and the industry representatives testified at the hearing that 4 CSR 240-121 was a potentially unnecessary chapter of regulations because it pertained to pre-owned manufactured homes, which cannot practically be brought up to code by the manufactured housing industry. Therefore, staff and the industry representative rec- ommended that this chapter of rules be rescinded.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff and the industry representatives. However, because this chapter cannot be rescinded without going through the proper statutory and administrative processes, the commission will withdraw these proposed amendments and begin a new rulemaking to consider the rescission of this chapter of regulations.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 121—Pre-Owned Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission withdraws a proposed amendment as follows:
4 CSR 240-121.050 Inspection of Preowned Manufactured Homes Rented, Leased or Sold or Offered for Rent, Lease or Sale by Persons Other Than Dealers is withdrawn.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the proposed amend- ment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1163–1164). This proposed amendment is withdrawn.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding the entire package of rule amendments filed simultaneously from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA);
Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. In addition, staff offered the written comment of Missouri Senator Sandy Crawford which was received after the comment period closed but prior to the hearing. The industry representatives and Senator Crawford opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. In written comments, staff explained the reason for the original proposed amendments and generally supported those amendments with changes. However, at hearing, staff proposed rescinding the entire chapter of rules rather than amending.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Staff and the industry representatives testified at the hearing that 4 CSR 240-121 was a potentially unnecessary chapter of regulations because it pertained to pre-owned manufactured homes, which cannot practically be brought up to code by the manufactured housing industry. Therefore, staff and the industry representative rec- ommended that this chapter of rules be rescinded.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff and the industry representatives. However, because this chapter cannot be rescinded without going through the proper statutory and administrative processes, the commission will withdraw these proposed amendments and begin a new rulemaking to consider the rescission of this chapter of regulations.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 121—Pre-Owned Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under section

 Page 194
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission withdraws a proposed amend- ment as follows:
4 CSR 240-121.060 Complaints and Review of Director Action is withdrawn.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the proposed amend- ment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1164). This proposed amendment is withdrawn.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding the entire package of rule amendments filed simultaneously from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. In addition, staff offered the written comment of Missouri Senator Sandy Crawford which was received after the comment period closed but prior to the hearing. The industry representatives and Senator Crawford opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. In written comments, staff explained the reason for the original proposed amendments and generally supported those amendments with changes. However, at hearing, staff proposed rescinding the entire chapter of rules rather than amending.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Staff and the industry representatives testified at the hearing that 4 CSR 240-121 was a potentially unnecessary chapter of regulations because it pertained to pre-owned manufactured homes, which cannot practically be brought up to code by the manufactured housing industry. Therefore, staff and the industry representative rec-
ommended that this chapter of rules be rescinded.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff and the industry representatives. However, because this chapter cannot be rescinded without going through the proper statutory and administrative processes, the commission will withdraw these proposed amendments and begin a new rulemaking to consider the rescission of this chapter of regulations.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 121—Pre-Owned Manufactured Homes
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission withdraws a proposed amendment as follows:
4 CSR 240-121.180 Monthly Report Requirement for Registered Manufactured Home Dealers is withdrawn.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the proposed amend- ment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1164). This proposed amendment is withdrawn.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding the entire package of rule amendments filed simultaneously from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. In addition, staff offered the written comment of Missouri Senator Sandy Crawford which was received after the comment period closed but prior to the hearing. The industry representatives and Senator Crawford opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. In written comments, staff explained the reason for the original proposed amendments and generally supported those amendments with changes. However, at hearing, staff proposed rescinding the entire chapter of rules rather than amending.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 195
  for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Staff and the industry representatives testified at the hearing that 4 CSR 240-121 was a potentially unnecessary chapter of regulations because it pertained to pre-owned manufactured homes, which cannot practically be brought up to code by the manufactured housing industry. Therefore, staff and the industry representative rec- ommended that this chapter of rules be rescinded.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff and the industry representatives. However, because this chapter cannot be rescinded without going through the proper statutory and administrative processes, the commission will withdraw these proposed amendments and begin a new rulemaking to consider the rescission of this chapter of regulations.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 123—Modular Units
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-123.010 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1164–1165). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments from four (4) manufactured hous- ing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff) and the Office of the Public Counsel (Public Counsel). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments in other rules being promulgated simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the man- ufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amend- ments and supported these amendments. Staff also proposed a change to the rule. Public Counsel made a general comment about citation.
COMMENT #1: Public Counsel suggested in a written comment that “Chapter 127” be identified as an administrative rule so that it was not mistaken as a statute.
RESPONSE: Public Counsel may have been commenting on a draft of the amended rule. The suggested change was made prior to publi- cation.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, because the changes proposed to this rule relate only to defining terms and adding citations, no changes have been made as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #4: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #5: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to streamline all of the commission’s manufactured housing regula- tions. These particular amendments would consolidate most defini- tions into one (1) location. Staff also recommended deleting the word “shall” in section (1) as it was superfluous.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff that consolidating these definitions will stream- line the regulations. It will also adopt the recommended deletion of the word “shall” in section (1).
4 CSR 240-123.010 Definitions
(1) The following definitions, as well as those set out in section 700.010, RSMo, and 4 CSR 240-127 apply to this chapter:
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 123—Modular Units
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:

 Page 196
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  4 CSR 240-123.020 Administration and Enforcement is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1165–1166). No changes have been made to the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This pro- posed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publica- tion in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hear- ing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to clearly set out the powers and responsibilities that are and are not delegated to the Program Manager.
RESPONSE: The commission agrees with staff that this proposed amendment will clarify the Program Manager’s powers and respon- sibilities.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 123—Modular Units
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-123.030 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1166–1167). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments from five (5) manufactured hous- ing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments in other rules being promulgated simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported these amendments. Staff also proposed a change to the rule.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith, Mr. Hagar, Mr. Crump, and Mr. DeVine gave oral and written comments opposing the complete pack- age of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. No commenters were opposed to changing the name of the commission personnel to “manager” or the other name and citation changes in this rule.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, because the changes proposed to this rule relate only to

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 197
  defining terms and adding citations, no changes have been made as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to clarify the rules. Staff also recommended changing the word “shall” in section (5) to “will”, and the word “shall” in section (6) to “may.”
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: In order to make the rule less restrictive, the commission will adopt staff’s change to section (6). However, staff’s proposed change does not add clarity to section (5) and therefore, will not be adopted.
4 CSR 240-123.030 Seals
(6) Seals may be delivered by one (1) of the following methods:
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 123—Modular Units
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-123.040 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1167–1168). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments from five (5) manufactured hous- ing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments in other rules being pro- mulgated simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they
would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported these amend- ments. Staff also proposed additional changes to the rule.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith, Mr. Hagar, Mr. Crump, and Mr. DeVine gave oral and written comments opposing the complete pack- age of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. No commenters were opposed to changing the name of the commission personnel to “manager” or the other amendments to this rule.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes have been made as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported many of the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to clarify the rules. At the hearing, however, staff recom- mended additional changes to simplify the rule and remove require- ments that repeat information found in the form. Staff recommended changes to sections (1), (3), (4), and (7) and to proposed section (8). Staff also recommended rejecting proposed subsections (1)(A) through (1)(F) and deleting original subsections (1)(A) through (1)(D). Staff stated that these changes would provide clarification and would be consistent with Executive Order 17-03 by reducing unnec- essary regulatory requirements.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff’s proposed deletions of proposed subsections (1)(A) through (1)(F) and original subsections (1)(A) through (1)(D) to reduce unnecessary regulations. The commission also will adopt the proposed changes to original sections (1) and (4). The commis- sion will make the withdrawal of approval discretionary instead of mandatory in order to lessen the restrictive nature of proposed sec- tion (8). The commission will also make further changes to sections (3) and (4) to add clarity and reduce the time for the manager to con- sider a request for approval of a manufacturing program. However, the commission will not make additional changes to section (7).
4 CSR 240-123.040 Approval of Manufacturing Programs
(1) To have a manufacturing program considered for approval, the manufacturer who will use the program for which approval is sought

 Page 198
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  shall submit a completed application, along with the following, to the manufactured housing and modular units program. The application may be obtained from the manager upon request, or from the com- mission’s website at www.psc.mo.gov:
(A) One (1) copy of the quality control manual under which the manufacturing program will be implemented. The manual shall at least include a description which is sufficient to demonstrate compli- ance with the applicable code(s) for every procedure relating to the manufacturing of modular units for which the code contains a requirement;
(B) Third party inspection for compliance with required codes; and
(C) One (1) copy of detailed manufacturer’s installation instruc- tions for the assembly of the modular components for each modular unit shall be furnished with each modular unit to the dealer or sell- ing agent, and one (1) set shall be submitted with each model plan for approval, such instruction shall reflect detailed instructions for the assembly of the unit(s), including the fastening of dormers if applicable, roof installation details, floor fastening, end wall fasten- ing, king post installation, and any other on-site assembly of manu- facturer supplied components.
(4) The manager has ten (10) days to consider a request for approval of a manufacturing program submitted pursuant to sections (1)–(3) above. A notice of refusal shall specify the reason for refusal.
(8) The commission may withdraw approval of a manufacturing pro- gram if the commission finds—
(D) Approval of simple modular unit plan revisions that do not include changes in systems or the manner of construction that do not take the unit out of compliance with the code and do not include the examples in subsection (11)(C) require approval by the manager, but do not require payment of a fee. Examples of such changes include, but are not limited to: addition or deletion of an entry way closet, installation of fake dormers, movement of an approved stairwell, reversal of a previously approved floor plan, or movement of a non- load bearing interior wall.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 123—Modular Units
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-123.050 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1169). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service
Commission (staff) and the Office of the Public Counsel (Public Counsel). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich Aubuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments. Public Counsel made a suggested amendment.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes to this particular rule have been made as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. Aubuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hear- ing that they agreed with Mr. Aubuchon’s comments. Mr. Aubuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. Aubuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule with some further changes. Staff explained that the amendments as originally proposed would have corrected the title of the individual responsible for the commission’s manufactured housing department from “director” to “manager.” Staff also explained that the proposed amendments would add that a manufacturer must maintain a copy of the bill of sale when a home is sold directly to a consumer, which was not previously addressed in the rule. Staff proposed additional changes in furtherance of the Governor’s Executive Order 17-03, to make the rule less restrictive by making the inspection of books and records discretionary.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff’s comment and will make the rule less restric- tive by amending the language as suggested.
COMMENT #5: Public Counsel commented that section (2) should include a length of time to make record-keeping requirements uni- form.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with Public Counsel’s comment and will further amend

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 199
  proposed section (2) to include a five- (5-) year time for keeping the bill of sale.
4 CSR 240-123.050 Inspection of Manufacturer’s Books, Records, Inventory and Premises
(1) The manager may inspect the books, records, including a copy of the data plate and all service records for each modular unit, invento- ry, and premises of a manufacturer during normal business hours to ascertain—
(2) Should a manufacturer sell directly to a consumer, the manufac- turer shall maintain a copy of the bill of sale in its files for no less than five (5) years at the location where it sold the modular unit to the purchaser, if possible; otherwise at its principal office.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 123—Modular Units
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-123.060 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1169). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich Aubuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments
opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes to this particular rule have been made as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. Aubuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. Aubuchon’s comments. Mr. Aubuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. Aubuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule with some further changes. Staff explained that the amendments as originally proposed would have corrected the title of the individual responsible for the commission’s manufactured housing department from “director” to “manager.” Staff also explained that the proposed amendments would add that a manufacturer must maintain a copy of the bill of sale when a home is sold directly to a consumer, which was not previously addressed in the rule. Staff proposed additional changes in furtherance of the Governor’s Executive Order 17-03, to make the rule less restrictive by making the inspection of books and records discretionary.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff’s comment and will make the rule less restric- tive by amending the language as suggested.
4 CSR 240-123.060 Inspection of Dealer’s Books, Records, Inventory and Premises
(1) The manager may inspect the books, records, inventory, and premises of a dealer from time-to-time during normal business hours to ascertain if grounds exist under 700.100, RSMo to file a complaint with the commission to reject an application for registration filed under section 700.090, RSMo or to refuse to renew, suspend, revoke, or place on probation a registration which has been made under sec- tion 700.090, RSMo.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 123—Modular Units
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-123.065 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1170–1173). Changes to the proposed amendment

 Page 200
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and general- ly supported those amendments. However, staff also proposed addi- tional significant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, and specifically stating that the changes with regard to fees and “re-inspections” would add excessive regulations on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: Numerous changes have been made to this rule in response to the industry, including Mr. DeVine, and staff comments. Specific changes make the fee implementation discretionary after consultation with the staff director and reports to the commission of the monetary effect of the changes on the industry.
COMMENT #4: Mr. Smith, Mr. AuBuchon, Mr. Crump, Mr. Ferrell, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Hagar, and the MMHA made written and oral comments opposing the amendments for similar reasons. In gen- eral, the commenters stated that the amendments were burdensome
to the industry, would ultimately cause additional expense to the con- sumers, and would deter manufacturing in the state. Specifically, the industry objected to the one- (1-) year and two- (2-) year inspection periods as set out in proposed subsections (2)(B) and (2)(C). Some of the industry representatives stated that the period for the manager to conduct his inspections should be limited to one hundred twenty (120) days, although the general consensus of the industry was that there should be no more than one (1) year to conduct an inspection.
The commenters stated that most “stick built” homes in Missouri do not have to comply with any building codes and at most have only a one- (1-) year warranty. They explained that manufactured homes must comply with Housing and Urban Development (HUD) regula- tions on building, which are very strict. For these reasons, the man- ufactured housing industry stated it is at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, the manufactured housing representatives stated that allowing the manager to conduct an initial setup inspection up to two (2) years after the home was setup was too long. They stated that they had no control over changes to the yard or home that homeowners would do or the effects that weather would have on the setup and thus, it would be unfair to have an inspection after one hundred twen- ty (120) days. The industry representatives stated that, in essence, this was requiring the dealers to give the consumers a two- (2-) year warranty on the home.
Additionally, the commenters stated that Missouri does more inspections and enforcement than its neighboring states, which only inspect homes due to consumer complaints and not on their own ini- tiative. The commenters indicated that in general the industry wanted the inspection and regulatory process, but that the inspections should be in response to complaints, not be done for the sake of creating work for the inspectors. Further, the commenters stated that under the current rules, the industry was accelerating their reporting to the manager and, therefore, the manager should have the information necessary to conduct inspections sooner.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion has considered the comments with regard to the one- (1-) year and two- (2-) year inspection periods. The manager currently only inspects about forty percent (40%) of new manufactured homes. The commission finds that these inspections are a benefit and enhance safety for the modular unit owners. Thus, the commission determines that a one- (1-) year period to conduct an initial setup inspection is not unreasonable. Further, the commission finds that consumers will be protected from potentially dangerous code violations if the time- frame to conduct an initial setup inspection based on a written con- sumer complaint remains at two (2) years. However, to reduce the potential burden on the industry, the commission will further amend subsection (2)(C) to limit fees and inspections to situations where an initial inspection was not performed.
COMMENT #5: Mr. Smith, Mr. AuBuchon, Mr. Crump, Mr. Ferrell, Mr. Taylor, and the MMHA opposed changing the imposi- tion of fees for not complying with the statutes and regulations from discretionary to mandatory. The commenters stated that this change was too harsh and was unnecessary. The commenters stated that the industry had a few bad actors that needed to have regulatory fees applied, but the majority of the industry operated within the require- ments and were upstanding businesses. Several of the commenters cited to a reduction in consumer complaints since training and licens- ing for home installers has been implemented in Missouri in 2009. RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, as staff has suggested in its comments set out below, the enforcement of fees or discipline should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consultation with the staff director. During this consultation, potential mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s respon- siveness to commission requirements should be considered. Further,

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 201
  in response to the industry’s concern that inspections not just be done in order to employ inspectors and in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commission deter- mines that the manager should track any fees assessed or waived under paragraph (2)(A)1. of the rule and provide a report on a quar- terly basis to the commission. Therefore, the commission has further amended paragraph (2)(A)1. of the rule.
COMMENT #6: Staff filed comments generally supporting the amendments, but also suggested some changes due to input from the industry and due to Executive Order 17-03. Staff explained the rea- son for the original proposed amendments was to comply with a report of the state auditor by removing the discretion to impose fees from the manager and placing it with the commission. The reporting period for submitting property locator forms was also extended from forty-eight (48) hours to five (5) days and the enforcement of the fee for late filing became mandatory with a procedure for waiver by the commission. After meeting with industry representatives and consid- ering their comments and Executive Order 17-03, staff recommended that the mandatory nature of the fees be removed and the discretion be left with the manager, but only after consultation with the staff director and consideration of specific criteria set out in the rule. Staff also recommended that the one- (1-) year and two- (2-) inspec- tion periods remain.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: In consideration of the comments of staff in conjunction with the comments of the industry representatives, the commission determines that the rule should be further amended.
The commission determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, as staff has suggested, the enforcement of fees or discipline should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consultation with the staff director. During this consultation, poten- tial mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to com- mission requirements should be considered. Further, in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commission determines that the manager should track any fees assessed or waived under paragraph (2)(A)1. of the rule and provide a report on a quarterly basis to the commission. Therefore, the com- mission has further amended paragraph (2)(A)1. of the rule and elim- inated proposed section (4) regarding a waiver process.
The commission has also considered the comments with regard to the one- (1-) year and two- (2-) year inspection periods. The manager currently only inspects about forty percent (40%) of new manufac- tured homes. The commission believes that these inspections are a benefit and enhance safety for the modular unit owners. Thus, the commission determines that a one- (1-) year period to conduct an ini- tial set-up inspection is not unreasonable. Further, the commission finds that consumers will be protected from potentially dangerous code violations if the timeframe to conduct an inspection remains at two (2) years. However, the commission will rewrite subsection (2)(E) for clarity.
Additionally, because the manager has two (2) years in which to conduct an inspection on a complaint, the commission finds that pro- posed subsection (1)(C) should be amended to eliminate the two- (2-) year period in which the manager may take action on a violation. The original intent was to eliminate the five- (5-) year period set out in original section (4), but not to exclude the possibility of recourse on a violation found at the end of the two- (2-) year inspection period as this limitation would do.
COMMENT #7: Mr. Crump also commented that the reporting requirements need to be further reduced as they were too onerous. RESPONSE: The commission is in the process of implementing a new computerized reporting system that should greatly simplify reporting requirements. Therefore, the commission will not make any
changes to the rule at this time as a result of this comment.
4 CSR 240-123.065 Modular Unit Dealer or Selling Agent Setup Responsibilities
(1) Modular Unit Dealer Setup.
(C) If a dealer, unless the dealer obtains the waiver of initial setup
referred to in subsection (A) above, fails to arrange for the proper ini- tial setup of a modular unit, the commission may discipline the deal- er’s registration by suspending it, revoking it, or placing it on proba- tion, pursuant to the provisions of section 700.100, RSMo, if the manager provides evidence to the commission, incident to an inspec- tion under subsections (2)(B) or (2)(C), of setup deficiencies.
(2) Modular Unit Inspections.
(A) Dealers shall submit to the manufactured housing and modular
units program a property locator indicating the destination of the new residential modular unit(s) or new or used classroom modular unit(s) within five (5) business days to the date the unit leaves the dealer’s location or the manufacturer’s location if the unit is shipped direct to the consumer. For multi-section new residential or new or used class- room modular unit(s) the five (5) business days begins when the first section leaves the dealer’s or manufacturer’s location. The dealer shall use the property locator form provided by the manufactured housing and modular units program.
1. The manager, in consultation with the commission staff direc- tor, after attempting to contact the entity involved and documenting consideration of potential mitigating factors, including, but not limit- ed to, the number of similar non-compliance issues, circumstances beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to com- mission requirements, may assess a fifty dollar ($50) per home inspection fee to dealers who fail to submit the property locator with- in five (5) business days from the due date. The manager will track fees assessed or waived under this provision, along with any docu- mented consideration of mitigating factors, and compile a quarterly report summarizing such information for review by the commission.
2. The manager may commence an action to discipline a deal- er’s registration for failure to timely report property locators or make payment upon property locator home inspection fees if the commis- sion has assessed no fewer than two (2) property locator home inspection fees against the dealer within the previous twelve (12) months of the due date of the property locator at issue.
(C) Within two (2) years of the delivery date of the home to the consumer, if no initial inspection was performed pursuant to subsec- tion (2)(B) of this rule, the manager may conduct an initial inspection of the home for setup and code violations upon the receipt of a formal written complaint by the consumer.
(E) If an initial inspection identifies no code violations or any re-inspection verifies that corrections have been made to address code violations identified on an initial inspection report, the manager will issue, within twenty (20) days of the final inspection or re- inspection, a notice of completion to each responsible entity, and the complainant if the initial inspection occurs subsequent to a consumer complaint, indicating no outstanding issues remain to be addressed. This notice is intended to notify parties when the manager has com- pleted an inspection process, but does not serve to indemnify any responsible party from any future liability.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 123—Modular Units
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:

 Page 202
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  4 CSR 240-123.070 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1174). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from six (6) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice- President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and generally supported those amendments. However, staff also proposed additional signifi- cant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, and specifically stating that the changes with regard to fees would add excessive regulations on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: Numerous changes have been made to this rule in response to the industry, including Mr. DeVine, and staff comments. Specific changes make the fee implementation discretionary after consultation with the staff director and reports to the commission of the monetary effect of the changes on the industry.
COMMENT #4: Mr. Smith, Mr. AuBuchon, Mr. Crump, Mr. Taylor, and the MMHA opposed changing the imposition of fees for not complying with the statutes and regulations from discretionary to mandatory. The commenters stated that this change was too harsh and was unnecessary. The commenters stated that the industry had a few bad actors that needed to have regulatory fees applied, but the majority of the industry operated within the requirements and were upstanding businesses. Several of the commenters cited to a reduc- tion in consumer complaints since training and licensing for home installers has been implemented in Missouri in 2009.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, as staff has suggested in its comments set out below, the enforcement of fees or discipline should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consultation with the staff director. During this consultation, potential mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and responsiveness to commission requirements should be considered. Further, in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commission determines that the manager should track any fees assessed or waived under this rule and provide a report on a quarterly basis to the commission. Therefore, the commission has further amended proposed section (7) and deleted proposed section (10).
COMMENT #5: Staff filed comments generally supporting the amendments, but also suggested some changes due to input from the industry and due to Executive Order 17-03. Staff explained the rea- son for the original proposed amendments was to comply with a report of the state auditor by removing the discretion to impose fees from the manager and placing it with the commission. Additionally, as originally proposed, actions against a dealer’s registration were added for monthly reports not filed within sixty and ninety days of the due dates. After meeting with industry representatives and con- sidering their comments and Executive Order 17-03, staff recom- mended that the mandatory nature of the fees be removed and the dis- cretion be left with the manager, but only after consultation with the staff director and consideration of specific criteria set out in the rule. Staff also recommended wording changes and a reference to where the form was located in section (2) and the removal of section (5) as it duplicated what was on the form. Staff also recommended the dele- tion of proposed section (10) because it was not needed when the other changes were made.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: In consideration of the comments of staff in conjunction with the comments of the industry representatives, the commission determines that the rule should be further amended.
The commission determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, as staff has suggested, the enforcement of fees or discipline should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consultation with the staff director. During this consultation, poten- tial mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to com- mission requirements should be considered. Further, in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commission determines that the manager should track any fees assessed or waived under this rule and provide a report on a quarterly basis to the commission.
The commission also accepts the other changes suggested by staff. Therefore, the commission has further amended proposed sections (2), (7), and (9), deleted proposed sections (5) and (10), and renum- bered the sections accordingly.
COMMENT #6: Mr. Crump also commented that the reporting requirements need to be further reduced as they were too onerous.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 203
  RESPONSE: The commission is in the process of implementing a new computerized reporting system that should greatly simplify reporting requirements. Therefore, the commission will not make any changes to the rule at this time as a result of this comment.
4 CSR 240-123.070 Monthly Report Requirement for Registered Modular Unit Dealers
(2) The modular unit dealer shall only use the commission’s monthly sales reports form. Sales report forms may be obtained from the Missouri Public Service Commission, PO Box 360, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or at the website http://psc.mo.gov.
(5) The manager of the manufactured housing and modular units pro- gram may reject monthly sales reports that are incomplete and require dealers to submit corrected reports.
(6) The manager, in consultation with the commission staff director, after attempting to contact the entity involved and documenting con- sideration of potential mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar non-compliance issues, circumstances beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to com- mission requirements, may assess a late submission fee of fifty dol- lars ($50) against a modular unit dealer for each monthly sales report filed sixty (60) days after the due date. The manager will track fees assessed or waived under this provision, along with any documented consideration, and compile a quarterly report summarizing such information for review by the commission.
(7) The commission may suspend the dealer’s registration for any report not submitted within sixty (60) days of the due date.
(8) Failure to submit timely and complete monthly sales reports with- in ninety (90) days of the due date and/or to pay any assessed fees could result in revocation of the dealer’s registration under section 700.098, RSMo.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 123—Modular Units
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-123.080 Code for Modular Units is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1174–1175). No changes have been made to the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received one (1) written comment regarding this rule from the staff of the commission. Staff explained the original amendment and pro- posed complete rescission of the rule as unnecessary.
COMMENT #1: Staff commented that these amendments were pro- posed to change the title of the person responsible for the program, add clarity, and cite to the current building code edition. Staff sup- ported the amendments as proposed.
RESPONSE: The commission finds the original amendments appro- priate and amends the rule accordingly.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 123—Modular Units
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-123.090 Complaints and Review of Manager’s Action(s) is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1175–1176). No changes have been made to the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This pro- posed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes to this particular rule have been made as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf

 Page 204
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hear- ing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff explained that the amendments correct the title of the individual responsible for the commission’s manufactured housing department from “director” to “manager” and add clarifica- tion to the rule. Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule.
RESPONSE: The commission agrees with staff and makes no further changes as a result of this comment.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 123—Modular Units
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-123.095 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1176–1179). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. In addition, staff offered the written comment of Missouri Senator Sandy Crawford which was received after the comment period closed but prior to the hearing. The industry representatives and Senator Crawford opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and generally sup- ported those amendments. However, staff also proposed additional significant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard-
ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, and specifically stating that the changes with regard to fees and “re-inspections” would add excessive regulations on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: Numerous changes have been made to this rule in response to the industry, including Mr. DeVine, and staff comments. Specific changes make the fee implementation discretionary after consultation with the staff director and reports to the commission of the monetary effect of the changes on the industry.
COMMENT #4: Senator Crawford, Mr. Smith, Mr. AuBuchon, Mr. Crump, Mr. Ferrell, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Hagar, and the MMHA made written and oral comments opposing the amendments for similar rea- sons. In general, the commenters stated that the amendments were burdensome to the industry, would ultimately cause additional expense to the consumers, and would deter manufacturing in the state. Specifically, the industry objected to the one- (1-) year and two- (2-) year inspection periods as set out in 4 CSR 240-123.065, and those comments were addressed in that rule.
Additionally, the commenters stated that Missouri does more inspections and enforcement than its neighboring states, which only inspect homes due to consumer complaints and not on their own ini- tiative. The commenters indicated that in general the industry wanted the inspection and regulatory process, but that the inspections should be in response to complaints, not be done for the sake of creating work for the inspectors.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion has considered the comments of the industry in conjunction with the comments of staff. Subsections (1)(C) and (2)(B) are being amended to remove the mandatory nature of the fees and creating a process for consideration of specific criteria by the manager in con- sultation with the staff director. Additionally, in order to maintain proper oversight of the implementation of fees, the commission is adding reporting requirements for the manager.
COMMENT #5: Senator Crawford, Mr. Smith, Mr. AuBuchon, Mr. Crump, Mr. Ferrell, Mr. Taylor, and the MMHA opposed changing the imposition of fees for not complying with the statutes and regula- tions from discretionary to mandatory. The commenters stated that this change was too harsh and was unnecessary. The commenters stated that the industry had a few bad actors that needed to have regulatory

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 205
  fees applied, but the majority of the industry operated within the requirements and were upstanding businesses. Several of the com- menters cited to a reduction in consumer complaints since training and licensing for home installers has been implemented in Missouri in 2009.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, as staff has suggested in its comments set out below, the enforcement of fees or discipline should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consultation with the staff director. During this consultation, potential mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and responsiveness to commission requirements should be considered. Further, in response to the industry’s concern that inspections not just be done in order to employ inspectors and in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commission determines that the manager should track any fees assessed or waived under subsections (1)(C) and (2)(B) of the rule and provide a report on a quarterly basis to the commission. Therefore, the commission has further amended subsections (1)(C) and (2)(B) of the rule.
COMMENT #6: Staff filed comments generally supporting the amendments, but also suggested some changes due to input from the industry and due to Executive Order 17-03. Staff explained the rea- son for the original proposed amendments was to comply with a report of the state auditor by removing the discretion to impose fees from the manager and placing it with the commission. A fee schedule was implemented to add clarity where multiple inspections were needed. Additionally, a section was added for suspension of a regis- tration for failure to pay the re-inspection fees and make corrective action and a section was added to govern the process of requesting a waiver of fees.
After meeting with industry representatives and considering their comments and Executive Order 17-03, in written comments staff rec- ommended that changes be made to proposed subsections (1)(B), (1)(C), and (2)(B) to change the mandatory nature of the fees, leaving discretion with the manager after consultation with the staff director. Staff also recommended minor wording changes to proposed sections (3) and (4), as well as a rewrite of proposed sections (6), (7), and (8). Staff recommended additional changes to proposed section (8) to remove a sentence detailing the length of suspension and recommend- ed deleting “shall” from proposed section (9) and deleting proposed section (10) because they are unnecessary.
Additionally, at the hearing staff presented additional written com- ments recommending that proposed subsections (1)(C) and (2)(B) be changed to add the criteria to be considered when the manager con- sults with the staff director.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: In consideration of the comments of staff in conjunction with the comments of the industry representatives, the commission determines that the rule should be further amended.
The commission determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, as staff has suggested, the enforcement of fees or discipline should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consultation with the staff director. During this consultation, poten- tial mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to com- mission requirements should be considered. Further, in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commission determines that the manager should track any fees assessed or waived under subsections (1)(C) and (2)(B) of the rule and provide a report on a quarterly basis to the commission. Therefore, the commission has further amended those subsections.
The commission has also considered the other changes suggested
by staff. The commission rejects the change proposed in proposed subsection (1)(B) and sections (3), (4), and (6) as they do not add clarification or other changes make them unnecessary. The commis- sion does find staff’s other changes to be appropriate with some rewording for clarification and unnecessary language deleted. Thus, the commission will further amend proposed sections (6), (7), and (8) and will delete proposed section (6). The commission is also combining proposed sections (3) and (4) for clarity and renumbering the sections accordingly.
4 CSR 240-123.095 Re-Inspection and Re-Inspection Fee
(1) Re-inspections subsequent to routine inspections of new modular homes.
(C) The manager, in consultation with the commission staff direc- tor, after attempting to contact the entity at issue and documenting consideration of potential mitigating factors, including, but not limit- ed to, the number of similar non-compliance issues, circumstances beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to com- mission requirements, may assess a two hundred dollar ($200) re- inspection fee(s) for any re-inspection subsequent to the first re- inspection. The fee is charged to the dealer, installer, or the manu- facturer who was responsible for making the corrections and com- pleting the corrections. The manager will track fees assessed or waived under this provision, along with any documented considera- tion, and compile a quarterly report summarizing such information for review by the commission.
(2) Re-inspections subsequent to a consumer complaint.
(B) The manager in consultation with the commission staff direc- tor, after attempting to contact the entity at issue and documenting consideration of potential mitigating factors, including, but not limit- ed to, the number of similar non-compliance issues, circumstances beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to com- mission requirements, may assess the dealer, installer, or the manu- facturer, or each entity, a fee for the re-inspection(s) if the dealer, installer, or the manufacturer responsible for making the required corrections fails to complete the required corrections within sixty (60) days of receipt of a consumer complaint. The fee shall not be charged to the dealer, installer, or the manufacturer who was respon- sible for making the required corrections if, during the re-inspection, it is found that the required corrections have been corrected within sixty (60) days of receipt of the consumer complaint. The manager will track fees assessed or waived under this provision, along with any documented consideration, and compile a quarterly report sum-
marizing such information for review by the commission.
(3) The re-inspection shall address all violations listed in the initial inspection report. A copy of the report shall be forwarded, within ten (10) days of the re-inspection, to the manufacturer, dealer, or both, and the customer, if applicable.
(4) The assessed fee shall be paid to the commission within twenty (20) working days from the date the re-inspection is completed. Each manufacturer and each dealer shall submit along with the fee a writ- ten plan of action to be taken by each to correct any remaining vio- lations identified and, unless otherwise approved by the manager, corrections shall be completed within thirty (30) days of the re- inspection.
(5) The fee for all inspections requested by third parties four hundred dollars ($400). Requests for inspections by third parties must be sub- mitted in writing to the manufactured housing and modular units pro- gram along with the associated fee. Licensed manufacturers or deal- ers are not considered third parties.
(6) If the manufacturer, installer, or dealer has not paid the re-inspec- tion fee within thirty (30) days of the prescribed date, the manager

 Page 206
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  may file a complaint and the commission may suspend the manufac- turer, installer, or dealer certificate or registration.
(7) The following situations constitute grounds for commission denial, revocation, or placing on probation of a manufacturer or deal- er certificate of registration:
(A) Failure to pay a re-inspection fee by the prescribed due date for two (2) consecutive months; or
(B) Failure to pay a re-inspection fee by the prescribed due date for any four (4) of the preceding twelve (12) months.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 124—Manufactured Home Tie-Down Systems
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-124.010 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1180). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments from four (4) manufactured hous- ing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff) and the Office of the Public Counsel (Public Counsel). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments in other rules being promulgated simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the man- ufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported these amendments. Staff also proposed a change to the rule. Public Counsel made a general comment about citation.
COMMENT #1: Public Counsel suggested in a written comment that “Chapter 127” be identified as an administrative rule so that it was not mistaken as a statute.
RESPONSE: Public Counsel may have been commenting on a draft of the amended rule. The suggested change was made prior to pub- lication.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, because the changes proposed to this rule relate only to defining terms and adding citations, no changes have been made as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #4: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hear- ing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #5: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to streamline the commission’s manufactured housing regulations. These particular amendments would consolidate most definitions into one location. Staff also recommended deleting the word “shall” in section (1) as it was superfluous.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff that consolidating these definitions will stream- line the regulations. It will also adopt the recommended deletion of the word “shall” in section (1).
4 CSR 240-124.010 Definitions
(1) The following definitions, as well as those set out in section 700.010, RSMo, and 4 CSR 240-127 apply to this chapter:
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 124—Manufactured Home Tie-Down Systems
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-124.020 Administration and Enforcement is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1180). No changes have been made to the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 207
  Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to clearly set out the powers and responsibilities that are and are not delegated to the Program Manager.
RESPONSE: The commission agrees with staff that this proposed amendment will clarify the Program Manager’s powers and respon- sibilities.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 124—Manufactured Home Tie-Down Systems
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-124.030 Determination of Applicable Manufactured Home Systems Standards is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1180–1181). No changes have been made to the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This pro- posed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the

 Page 208
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to add clarification to the applicable standards.
RESPONSE: The commission agrees with staff that this proposed amendment is appropriate and adopts it.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 124—Manufactured Home Tie-Down Systems
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-124.040 Commission Approval of Manufactured Home Tie-Down Systems is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1181–1182). No changes have been made to the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This pro- posed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publica- tion in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth,
and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hear- ing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to reorganize the rule, add clarification, and extend the time frame for inspection of newly submitted anchoring systems.
RESPONSE: The commission agrees with staff that this proposed amendment is appropriate and adopts it.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 124—Manufactured Home Tie-Down Systems
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission withdraws a proposed amendment as follows:
4 CSR 240-124.045 Anchoring Standards is withdrawn.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the proposed amend- ment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1182–1184). This proposed amendment is withdrawn.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received one (1) written comment regarding this rule from the staff of the commission. Staff explained the original amendment and pro- posed complete rescission of the rule as unnecessary.
COMMENT #1: Staff commented that originally, amendments were proposed to remove definitions and change the title of the person responsible for the program. However, upon further review of the rules in conjunction with Executive Order 17-03, staff recommends that this rule be rescinded in its entirety because it simply restates federal requirements.
RESPONSE: The commission agrees with staff. However, because this chapter cannot be rescinded without going through the proper statutory and administrative processes, the commission will withdraw this proposed amendment and begin a new rulemaking to consider the rescission of this rule.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 209
  Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 124—Manufactured Home Tie-Down Systems
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-124.050 Standards is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1184–1185). No changes have been made to the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This pro- posed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions
about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendment to this rule and explained that the amendment was to correct an error in the statutory citation.
RESPONSE: The commission agrees that the amendment is appro- priate.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 124—Manufactured Home Tie-Down Systems
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-124.060 Complaints is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1185). No changes have been made to the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.

 Page 210
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hear- ing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were to clarify who may file complaints and to change the title of the person responsible for the manufactured housing program.
RESPONSE: The commission agrees that the amendments are appropriate.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 125—Manufactured Home Installers
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-125.010 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1185–1186). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments from four (4) manufactured hous- ing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff) and the Office of the Public Counsel (Public Counsel). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom
Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments in other rules being promulgated simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the man- ufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amend- ments and supported these amendments. Staff also proposed a change to the rule. Public Counsel made a general comment about citation.
COMMENT #1: Public Counsel suggested in a written comment that “Chapter 127” be identified as an administrative rule so that it was not mistaken as a statute.
RESPONSE: Public Counsel may have been commenting on a draft of the amended rule. The suggested change was made prior to pub- lication.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, because the changes proposed to this rule relate only to defining terms and adding citations, no changes have been made as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #4: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hear- ing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #5: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to streamline all of the commission’s manufactured housing regula- tions. These particular amendments would consolidate most defini- tions into one (1) location. Staff also recommended deleting the word “shall” in section (1) as it was superfluous.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff that consolidating these definitions will stream- line the regulations. It will also adopt the recommended deletion of the word “shall” in section (1).
4 CSR 240-125.010 Definitions
(1) The following definitions, as well as those set out in section 700.010, RSMo and 4 CSR 240-127 apply to this chapter:

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 211
  Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 125—Manufactured Home Installers
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-125.020 General Provisions is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1186–1187). No changes have been made to the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This pro- posed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amend- ments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions
about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendment to this rule and explained that the amendment was to change who issues the license.
RESPONSE: The commission agrees that the amendment is appro- priate.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 125—Manufactured Home Installers
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-125.040 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1187). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amendments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments

 Page 212
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff explained that the amendments were being proposed in order to reorganize the rule, add clarification, and add a requirement for additional continuing education classes for installers every three (3) years. However, after further review, staff recom- mended additional reorganization and removing proposed paragraphs (1)(A)1. and (1)(A)2. because those requirements were not needed in the rule because they were set out in the statutes. Staff commented that it was proposing changes to clarify the rules and update them as needed.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff’s proposed deletion of paragraphs (1)(A)1. and (1)(A)2. However, rather than make the reorganizational change pro- posed in staff’s comments, the commission will further rewrite sec- tion (1) and add a new subsection (1)(C). Additionally, in response to staff’s general comment regarding clarification and updating, a typographical error in subsection (3)(B) is corrected changing the word “manufacturered” to “manufacturer.”
4 CSR 240-125.040 Manufactured Home Installer License
(1) Requirements for an Installer License.
(A) To be licensed as a manufactured home installer, an applicant
shall meet all of the requirements of sections 700.650 to 700.692, RSMo, and submit to the manufactured housing and modular units program—
1. An application form and one hundred fifty dollar ($150) application fee;
2. The certificate issued by the educational provider; and
3. Proof of liability and workman’s compensation insurance coverage as required pursuant to section 700.659, RSMo.
(C) A manufactured home installer must attend certification class- es every three (3) years or as otherwise required by the manager.
(3) Primary Installer Responsibilities in addition to (2)(A) and (B) above—
(B) Primary installers who install new manufactured homes in Missouri from dealers, manufacturers, or other entities located in other states shall submit a property locator form provided by the manufactured housing and modular units program prior to placing the manufactured home on the site. Failure to submit the property locator to the manufactured housing and modular units program prior to placing the manufactured home on the site may subject the
installer to the fifty dollar ($50) inspection fee as defined in 4 CSR 240-120.065(4)(D).
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 125—Manufactured Home Installers
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-125.050 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1187–1188). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from four (4) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and generally supported those amendments. However, staff also proposed additional significant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 213
  COMMENT #3: Staff filed comments explaining that the reason for the original proposed amendments was to add requirements for lim- ited use installers. After further review of the rules, however, staff recommends that most of the changes are unnecessary because they are already set out in the statute governing these installers. Thus, staff recommends that most of the proposed amendments to section (1) and proposed section (2) be rejected and original sections (2) and (3) not be deleted from the rule.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff and will make the changes proposed. Therefore, the commission rejects all but one (1) amendment to sec- tion (1), rejects proposed section (2), and will not delete original sec- tions (2) and (3) from the rule.
4 CSR 240-125.050 Limited Use Installer License
(1) To be licensed as a manufactured home limited use installer, an applicant shall submit to the manufactured housing and modular units program a completed application, signed and dated by the applicant, together with the required one hundred fifty dollar ($150) fee and proof of general liability and workmen’s compensation insurance. A limited use installer license allows the holder to perform all of the work performed by a licensed installer under the supervision of a licensed installer.
(2) A limited use installer license shall be valid for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days and may be renewed one (1) time.
(3) If needed, the commission may contact any person or entity to verify the experience of an applicant.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 125—Manufactured Home Installers
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-125.060 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1188–1189). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. In addition, staff offered the written comment of Missouri Senator Sandy Crawford which was received after the comment period closed but
prior to the hearing. The industry representatives and Senator Crawford opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and generally sup- ported those amendments. However, staff also proposed additional significant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, and specifically stating that the changes with regard to fees would add excessive regulations on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: Numerous changes have been made to this rule in response to the industry, including Mr. DeVine, and staff comments. Specific changes make the filing of a complaint against an installer discretionary, much like the commission decided to make the implementation of fees discre- tionary in other rules.
COMMENT #4: Mr. Crump did not comment specifically on this rule, but did generally note that there had been a reduction in con- sumer complaints since training and licensing for home installers was implemented in Missouri in 2009.
RESPONSE: The commission appreciates Mr. Crump’s comments. The commission finds that the amendments to this rule will further clarify the requirements and enhance the installer licensing program. No changes were made as a result of this comment.
COMMENT #5: Staff filed comments generally supporting the amendments, but also suggested an additional change due to input from the industry and due to Executive Order 17-03. Staff explained the reason for the original proposed amendments was to change which part of the agency would receive the submission and notifica- tions. That is, the submissions would now be made with the manager of the manufactured housing program. Additionally, a section was added describing actions to be taken against an installer’s license for failure to comply.
After meeting with industry representatives and considering their comments and Executive Order 17-03, staff recommended that minor wording changes be made to proposed subsection (3)(B) to make fil- ing a complaint discretionary, rather than mandatory.

 Page 214
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: In consideration of the comments of staff in conjunction with the comments of the industry representatives, the commission determines that the rule should be further amended.
The commission determines that enforcement actions should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, as staff has suggested, complaints filed by the manager should be discretionary. Therefore, the commission has further amended subsection (3)(B).
4 CSR 240-125.060 Licensing
(3) License Suspension and Revocation.
(B) The commission may suspend an installer license for up to
thirty (30) days for failure to comply with the provisions of Chapter 700 RSMo, the rules promulgated thereunder, or the act or the code(s) as adopted under this chapter. If conditions have not been remedied within thirty (30) days, the manager may file, with the commission, a complaint against the installer for failure to comply with a commission rule.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 125—Manufactured Home Installers
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-125.070 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1189–1191). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. In addition, staff offered the written comment of Missouri Senator Sandy Crawford which was received after the comment period closed but prior to the hearing. The industry representatives and Senator Crawford opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and generally sup- ported those amendments. However, staff also proposed additional significant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre-
pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hear- ing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Mr. Smith, Mr. AuBuchon, Mr. Crump, Mr. Hagar, and the MMHA made written and oral comments opposing the amend- ments for similar reasons. In general, the commenters stated that the amendments were burdensome to the industry, would ultimately cause additional expense to the consumers, and would deter manufacturing in the state. Specifically, the industry objected to the increased decal costs proposed in this rule. Mr. Crump stated that he believed the fis- cal impact to be greater than estimated by the commission. RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion has considered the comments in conjunction with the comments of staff as set out below. The commission finds that the fee for decals should be changed to twenty-seven dollars ($27).
COMMENT #4: Senator Crawford, Mr. Smith, Mr. AuBuchon, Mr. Crump, Mr. Ferrell, Mr. Taylor, and the MMHA opposed changing the imposition of fees for not complying with the statutes and regu- lations from discretionary to mandatory. The commenters stated that this change was too harsh and was unnecessary. The commenters stated that the industry had a few bad actors that needed to have reg- ulatory fees applied, but the majority of the industry operated within the requirements and were upstanding businesses. Several of the commenters cited to a reduction in consumer complaints since train- ing and licensing for home installers has been implemented in Missouri in 2009.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, the enforcement of fees for late submission of reports should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consultation with the staff director. During this consultation, potential mitigating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to commission requirements should be considered. Further, in response to the industry’s concerns and in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commission determines that the manager should track any fees assessed or waived under subsection (3)(G) of the rule and provide a report on a quarterly basis to the commission. Therefore, the commission has further amended section (3).
COMMENT #5: Staff filed comments generally supporting the amendments, but also suggested some changes due to input from the industry and due to Executive Order 17-03. Staff explained the rea- son for the original proposed amendments was to provide clarifica- tion about the process, to increase the fee for installation decals due

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 215
  to increased costs, and to make enforcement of fees for late submis- sions mandatory rather than discretionary. After meeting with indus- try representatives and considering their comments and considering Executive Order 17-03, staff re-examined the proposed costs for fees and recommended increasing the fee by only two dollars ($2) from twenty-five dollars ($25) to twenty-seven dollars ($27). Staff also recommended deleting certain subsections that merely restated the statutory requirements and deleting proposed section (4) if fees are not mandatory.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: In consideration of the comments of staff in conjunction with the comments of the industry representatives, the commission determines that the rule should be further amended.
The commission determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, the enforce- ment of fees for late submission of reports should be carried out after an attempt to communicate with the entity involved and after consul- tation with the staff director. During this consultation, potential mit- igating factors, including, but not limited to, the number of similar noncompliance issues, circumstances that may have been beyond the entity’s control, and the entity’s responsiveness to commission requirements should be considered. Further, in response to the indus- try’s concerns and in order to maintain oversight of the manager and the fee and waiver process, the commission determines that the man- ager should track any fees assessed or waived under subsection (3)(G) of the rule and provide a report on a quarterly basis to the commission. Therefore, the commission has further amended section (3) and has amended the fiscal note.
The commission has also considered the comments of staff and will make further alterations to the reporting requirements as found in proposed sections (3) and (4).
COMMENT #6: Mr. Crump also commented that the reporting requirements need to be further reduced as they were too onerous. RESPONSE: The commission is in the process of implementing a new computerized reporting system that should greatly simplify reporting requirements. Therefore, the commission will not make any changes to the rule at this time as a result of this comment.
4 CSR 240-125.070 Installation Decals
(1) Requirements for Installation Decals.
(D) Decals may be purchased by licensed installers by submitting
an application to the manufactured housing and modular units pro- gram, in duplicate together with the appropriate twenty-seven dollars ($27) for each decal.
(3) Monthly Installation Decal Report.
(F) The manager may reject all monthly reports that are incom-
plete and require the installer to submit corrected reports.
(G) The manager, in consultation with the commission staff direc- tor, after attempting to contact the entity involved and documenting consideration of potential mitigating factors, including, but not lim- ited to, the number of similar non-compliance issues, circumstances beyond the installer’s control, and the installer’s responsiveness to commission requirements, may assess a late submission fee of fifty dollars ($50) per report for each report that is filed sixty (60) days after the due date. The manager will track fees assessed or waived under this provision, along with any documented consideration of mitigating factors, and compile a quarterly report summarizing such
information for review by the commission.
(H) The commission may suspend the installer’s license for any
report not submitted within sixty (60) days of the due date.
(I) Failure to submit a completed monthly report within ninety (90) days of the due date or failure to pay any required fees could
result in revocation of the installer’s license.
to be five thousand three hundred seventy dollars ($5,370) in the aggregate over a three- (3-) year life of the rule. The private entity cost for three (3) years was previously estimated as twenty-six thou- sand eight hundred fifty dollars ($26,850).
REVISED PRIVATE COST: The cost to private entities is estimated

 Page 216
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
Orders of Rulemaking
   
 February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 217
   
 Page 218
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 125—Manufactured Home Installers
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-125.090 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1192). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from seven (7) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Daniel Ferrell, MMHA; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA; Tony Taylor, Gifford Homes, Inc.; and the MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. In addition, staff offered the written comment of Missouri Senator Sandy Crawford which was received after the comment period closed but prior to the hearing. The industry representatives and Senator Crawford opposed many of the proposed amendments on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing indus- try. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and generally sup- ported those amendments. However, staff also proposed additional significant changes to the rules.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in
the context of those rules.
COMMENT #3: Senator Crawford, Mr. Smith, Mr. AuBuchon, Mr. Crump, Mr. Ferrell, Mr. Taylor, and the MMHA opposed changing the imposition of fees for not complying with the statutes and regu- lations from discretionary to mandatory. The commenters stated that this change was too harsh and was unnecessary. The commenters stated that the industry had a few bad actors that needed to have reg- ulatory fees applied, but the majority of the industry operated within the requirements and were upstanding businesses. Several of the commenters cited to a reduction in consumer complaints since train- ing and licensing for home installers has been implemented in Missouri in 2009.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion determines that the enforcement actions and fees should not be automatic or mandatory in nature. Rather, the filing of complaints should be carried out only after the manager has consulted with the staff director. Therefore, the commission has further amended sec- tion (7).
COMMENT #4: Staff filed comments generally supporting the amendments, but also suggested some changes due to input from the industry and due to Executive Order 17-03. Staff explained the rea- son for the original proposed amendments was to add a process for staff counsel to send a letter to all responsible parties if repairs were not completed by the deadline and then a process for automatically filing a formal complaint. After meeting with industry representa- tives and considering their comments and considering Executive Order 17-03, staff recommended revising section (7) to make the fil- ing of a complaint discretionary after the manager consults with the staff director.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: In consideration of the comments of staff in conjunction with the comments of the industry representatives, the commission finds that the rule should be further amended. The commission finds that the filing of a complaint should not be automatic or mandatory in nature but should be discre- tionary and only after the manager consults with the staff director. Therefore, the commission has further amended section (7).
4 CSR 240-125.090 Dispute Resolution
(7) If the repairs are not completed by the original or duly-extended deadline, the manager, after consultation with the commission staff director, may file a formal complaint with the commission.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 126—Manufactured Housing Consumer Recovery Fund
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-126.010 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1192–1193). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 219
  received timely written comments from four (4) manufactured hous- ing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff) and the Office of the Public Counsel (Public Counsel). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments in other rules being promulgated simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the man- ufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amend- ments and supported these amendments. Staff also proposed a change to the rule. Public Counsel made a general comment about citation.
COMMENT #1: Public Counsel suggested in a written comment that “Chapter 127” be identified as an administrative rule so that it was not mistaken as a statute.
RESPONSE: Public Counsel may have been commenting on a draft of the amended rule. The suggested change was made prior to pub- lication.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, because the changes proposed to this rule relate only to defining terms and adding citations, no changes have been made as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #4: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #5: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed in order
to streamline all of the commission’s manufactured housing regula- tions. These particular amendments would consolidate most defini- tions into one (1) location. Staff also recommended deleting the word “shall” in section (1) as it was superfluous.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff that consolidating these definitions will stream- line the regulations. It will also adopt the recommended deletion of the word “shall” in section (1).
4 CSR 240-126.010 Definitions
(1) The following definitions, as well as those set out in section 700.010, RSMo, and 4 CSR 240-127 apply to this chapter:
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 126—Manufactured Housing Consumer Recovery Fund
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tion 700.040, RSMo 2016, the commission amends a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-126.020 is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1193–1194). Changes to the proposed amendment are reprinted here. This proposed amendment becomes effective thir- ty (30) days after publication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments regarding this rule from three (3) manufactured housing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments about this rule from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff). At the public hearing, comments about this rule were received from four (4) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; and Jamie Smith. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments to rules filed simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the manufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the amendments and supported the amendments.
COMMENT #1: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule amendments. Mr. Hagar requested the hearing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not

 Page 220
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Orders of Rulemaking
  specifically the changes in this rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, no changes have been made to this particular rule as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #3: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #4: Staff supported the proposed amendments to this rule and explained that the amendments were being proposed to add federal regulations to the list of governing standards that may consti- tute grounds for a claim, add how to address costs incurred as a result of a defunct entity, add the word “or” to section (6) to show that one (1) requirement must be met instead of all requirements, and to remove the sixty- (60-) day timeframe for the advisory committee to submit a recommendation because it was found to be unworkable in practice. Additionally, staff proposed further wording changes to sections (2), (4), and (5) in order to remove unnecessarily restrictive language and to clarify the sections. Staff commented that it was proposing changes to clarify the rules and update them as needed. RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff’s proposed changes except that, the commis- sion has rewritten section (2) further for clarity. Therefore, the com- mission further amends sections (2), (4), and (5). Additionally, in response to staff’s general comment regarding clarification and updating, the commission will correct a grammatical error in the pro- posed subsection (3)(H) changing the wording “as a result of” to “because.”
4 CSR 240-126.020 Consumer Recovery Fund
(2) The advisory committee shall consist of three (3) members to assist the commission in the administration and investigation of all claims submitted by consumers under this rule. The committee mem- bers shall include the manager, one (1) person from the commission’s staff counsel’s office, and one (1) member of the Missouri Manufactured Housing Association.
(3) In order to receive a disbursement of funds from the Recovery Fund, the following criteria shall be met:
(H) The amount requested by the consumer must reflect the actual cost of repairs or additional costs incurred because a manufacturer, dealer, or installer is out-of-business, bankrupt, closed, dissolved, or no longer subject to the jurisdiction of the commission. In no event shall a reimbursement amount be made from the Recovery Fund in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000) for single section homes and seven thousand five hundred ($7,500) for multi-section homes. No claim shall include attorney’s fees, double, treble, punitive, or exem- plary damages.
(4) Upon receipt of a claim form, the advisory committee will inves-
tigate and determine whether the requirements of this rule have been met and shall present its findings to the commission in the form of a recommendation.
(5) Recommendations of the advisory committee for disbursement of funds from the Recovery Fund shall be subject to the approval of the commission.
Title 4—DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Division 240—Public Service Commission Chapter 127—Manufactured Homes and Modular Units
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the Public Service Commission under sec- tions 700.040 and 700.692, RSMo 2016, the commission adopts a rule as follows:
4 CSR 240-127.010 is adopted.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed rule was published in the Missouri Register on August 15, 2017 (42 MoReg 1194–1196). Changes to the proposed rule are reprinted here. This proposed rule becomes effective thirty (30) days after pub- lication in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: The public comment period ended September 15, 2017, and the commission held a public hearing on the proposed amendment on September 22, 2017. The commission received timely written comments from four (4) manufactured hous- ing industry representatives including: Thomas Hagar, Executive Director, Missouri Manufactured Housing Association (MMHA); Bryan Crump, Cedar Creek Homes; Timothy L. DeVine, Your Home Center L.L.C.; and Jamie Smith, Managing Partner/General Manager, Clayton Homes of Lebanon, and Vice-President-Board of Directors of MMHA. The commission also received timely written comments from the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission (staff) and the Office of the Public Counsel (Public Counsel). At the public hearing testimony was received from five (5) commenters: Mark Johnson, Staff Counsel representing staff; Rich AuBuchon, an attorney representing MMHA; Bryan Crump; Jamie Smith; and Tom Hagar. The industry representatives opposed many of the proposed amendments in other rules being promulgated simultaneously with this rule on the grounds that they would be burdensome on the man- ufactured housing industry. Staff explained the reason for the rule and supported it. Staff also proposed a change to the rule. Public Counsel made a general comment about citation.
COMMENT #1: Public Counsel suggested in a written comment that “Chapter 127” be identified as an administrative rule so that it was not mistaken as a statute.
RESPONSE: Public Counsel may have been commenting on a draft of the proposed rule. The suggested change was made prior to pub- lication.
COMMENT #2: Mr. Hagar made a general written comment regard- ing the amendments proposed to the entire package of manufactured housing rules. He expressed concern that the date set for the hearing did not allow the MMHA members sufficient time to review and pre- pare comments on the rule changes. Mr. Hagar requested the hear- ing be delayed.
RESPONSE: The date for the hearing had already been published in the Missouri Register when the comment was received, and could not be postponed. Members of the MMHA participated in the hearing and filed written comments.

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 221
  COMMENT #3: Mr. Smith and Mr. DeVine filed written comments opposing the complete package of rule changes in general, though not specifically this proposed rule. The commenters stated that the changes to manufactured housing rules would add excessive regula- tions on the manufactured housing industry, deter business growth, and add costs to consumers.
RESPONSE: Numerous changes have been made to other manufac- tured housing rules in response to industry and staff comments. However, because this proposed rule relates only to defining terms, no changes have been made as a result of these comments.
COMMENT #4: Mr. AuBuchon commented at the hearing on behalf of the MMHA. Mr. Crump and Mr. Smith commented at the hearing that they agreed with Mr. AuBuchon’s comments. Mr. AuBuchon gave general comments about and a history of the rulemaking process for all the manufactured housing rules that are being simultaneously promulgated with this rule. Mr. AuBuchon also made suggestions about how the commission could have communicated better with the industry.
RESPONSE: The comments of the manufactured housing industry representatives are appreciated by the commission. However, because the process was completed in accordance with the statutory require- ments and the comments were general in nature, no changes to the rules were made as a result of these general comments. The com- ments specific to other manufactured housing rules are addressed in the context of those rules.
COMMENT #5: Staff supported the proposed rule and explained that the rule was being proposed in order to streamline all of the com- mission’s manufactured housing regulations. This particular rule would consolidate most definitions into one (1) location. Staff also recommended deleting the word “shall” in section (1) as it was superfluous.
RESPONSE AND EXPLANATION OF CHANGE: The commis- sion agrees with staff that consolidating these definitions will stream- line the regulations. It will also adopt the recommended deletion of the word “shall” in section (1).
4 CSR 240-127.010 Definitions
(1) The following definitions apply to Chapter 120, Chapter 121, Chapter 123, Chapter 124, Chapter 125, and Chapter 126:
Title 16—RETIREMENT SYSTEMS Division 10—The Public School Retirement System of Missouri
Chapter 5—Retirement, Options and Benefits
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the board of trustees under section 169.020, RSMo 2016, the board of trustees hereby amends a rule of The Public School Retirement System of Missouri as follows:
16 CSR 10-5.010 Service Retirement is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on October 16, 2017 (42 MoReg 1552–1553). No changes have been made in the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This pro- posed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publica- tion in the Code of State Regulations.
Title 16—RETIREMENT SYSTEMS Division 10—The Public School Retirement System of Missouri
Chapter 6—The Public Education Employee Retirement System of Missouri
ORDER OF RULEMAKING
By the authority vested in the board of trustees under section 169.610, RSMo 2016, the board of trustees hereby amends a rule of The Public School Retirement System of Missouri as follows:
16 CSR 10-6.060 Service Retirement is amended.
A notice of proposed rulemaking containing the text of the proposed amendment was published in the Missouri Register on October 16, 2017 (42 MoReg 1553–1554). No changes have been made in the text of the proposed amendment, so it is not reprinted here. This pro- posed amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days after publica- tion in the Code of State Regulations.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: No comments were received.
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS: No comments were received.

 MISSOURI Dissolutions February 1, 2018 REGISTER Vol. 43, No. 3
  The Secretary of State is required by sections 347.141 and 359.481, RSMo 2016, to publish dissolutions of limited liability companies and limited partnerships. The content requirements for the one-time publishing of these notices are prescribed by statute. This listing is published pursuant to these statutes. We request that documents submitted for publication in this section be submitted in camera ready 8 1/2" x 11" manuscript by email to adrules.dissolutions@sos.mo.gov.
  222
 
  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 223
    
 Page 224
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Dissolutions
    
  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 225
    
 Page 226
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Dissolutions
    
 Rule Changes Since Update to
February 1, 2018 Code of State Regulations MISSOURI Vol. 43, No. 3 REGISTER
  This cumulative table gives you the latest status of rules. It contains citations of rulemakings adopted or proposed after deadline for the monthly Update Service to the Code of State Regulations, citations are to volume and page number in the Missouri Register, except for material in this issue. The first number in the table cite refers to the volume number or the publication year—42 (2017) and 43 (2018). MoReg refers to Missouri Register and the numbers refer to a specific Register page, R indicates a rescission, W indicates a withdrawal, S indicates a statement of actual cost, T indicates an order terminating a rule, N.A. indicates not applicable, RAN indicates a rule action notice, RUC indicates a rule under consideration, and F indicates future effective date.
Rule Number Agency Emergency Proposed
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION
1 CSR 10 State Officials’ Salary Compensation Schedule
Order
In Addition
42 MoReg 1849
 1 CSR 20-5.015 Personnel Advisory Board and Division of
Personnel 41 MoReg 1538
 1 CSR 20-5.020 Personnel Advisory Board and Division of
Personnel 41 MoReg 1539
 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
2 CSR 90-10 Weights, Measures and Consumer Protection 42 MoReg 1203
 DEPARTMENT OF CONSERVATION
3 CSR 10-3.010 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1363 43 MoReg 89
 3 CSR 10-5.425 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1363 43 MoReg 89
 3 CSR 10-7.455 Conservation Commission   43 MoReg 93
3 CSR 10-8.510 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1364 43 MoReg 89
 3 CSR 10-9.110 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1364 43 MoReg 90
 3 CSR 10-9.625 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1365 43 MoReg 90
 3 CSR 10-10.727 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1365 43 MoReg 90
 3 CSR 10-10.744 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1366 43 MoReg 90
 3 CSR 10-10.767 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1366 43 MoReg 90
 3 CSR 10-11.180 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1366 43 MoReg 91
 3 CSR 10-12.110 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1368 43 MoReg 91
 3 CSR 10-12.115 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1368 43 MoReg 91
 3 CSR 10-12.135 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1368 43 MoReg 91
 3 CSR 10-20.805 Conservation Commission 42 MoReg 1372 43 MoReg 91
 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
4 CSR 240-3.050 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1641R
 4 CSR 240-3.163 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1231R 43 MoReg 13R
 4 CSR 240-3.164 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1231R 43 MoReg 13R
 4 CSR 240-10.075 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1641
 4 CSR 240-18.010 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1232 43 MoReg 13
 4 CSR 240-120.011 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1145 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-120.031 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1146 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-120.060 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1146 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-120.065 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1147 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-120.070 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1151 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-120.080 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1151 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-120.085 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1151 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-120.090 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1156 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-120.100 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1158 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-120.110 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1158 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-120.120 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1159 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-120.130 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1159 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-120.140 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1160 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-121.010 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1161 This IssueW
 4 CSR 240-121.020 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1161 This IssueW
 4 CSR 240-121.030 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1162 This IssueW
 4 CSR 240-121.040 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1163 This IssueW
 4 CSR 240-121.050 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1163 This IssueW
 4 CSR 240-121.060 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1164 This IssueW
 4 CSR 240-121.180 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1164 This IssueW
 4 CSR 240-123.010 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1164 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-123.020 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1165 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-123.030 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1166 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-123.040 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1167 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-123.050 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1169 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-123.060 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1169 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-123.065 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1170 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-123.070 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1174 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-123.080 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1174 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-123.090 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1175 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-123.095 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1176 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-124.010 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1180 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-124.020 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1180 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-124.030 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1180 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-124.040 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1181 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-124.045 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1182 This IssueW
 4 CSR 240-124.050 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1184 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-124.060 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1185 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-125.010 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1185 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-125.020 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1186 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-125.040 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1187 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-125.050 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1187 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-125.060 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1188 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-125.070 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1189 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-125.090 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1192 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-126.010 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1192 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-126.020 Public Service Commission 42 MoReg 1193 This Issue
 4 CSR 240-127.010 Public Service Commission
42 MoReg 1194 This Issue
227

 Page 228
Rule Changes Since Update
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Rule Number Agency Emergency Proposed Order In Addition
4 CSR 340-2 Division of Energy 42 MoReg 749
43 MoReg 15
 4 CSR 340-6.010 Division of Energy 41 MoReg 1908
 DEPARTMENT OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
5 CSR 20-100.210 Division of Learning Services 42 MoReg 1071 42 MoReg 1797
 5 CSR 20-300.110 Division of Learning Services N.A. 42 MoReg 1797
 5 CSR 20-300.150 Division of Learning Services 42 MoReg 1072R 42 MoReg 1798R
 5 CSR 20-400.640 Division of Learning Services 42 MoReg 1581
 5 CSR 20-500.310 Division of Learning Services 42 MoReg 1760R
 5 CSR 20-500.340 Division of Learning Services 42 MoReg 1760R
 DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION
6 CSR 10-4.010 Commissioner of Higher Education This Issue
 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
7 CSR Department of Transportation 41 MoReg 845
 7 CSR 10-1.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1643
 7 CSR 10-3.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1825
 7 CSR 10-3.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1831
 7 CSR 10-3.030 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1832
 7 CSR 10-4.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1833
 7 CSR 10-4.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1834
 7 CSR 10-5.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1412
 7 CSR 10-6.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1413
 7 CSR 10-6.030 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1414
 7 CSR 10-6.040 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1415
 7 CSR 10-6.050 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1416
 7 CSR 10-6.060 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1417
 7 CSR 10-6.070 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1418
 7 CSR 10-6.080 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1419
 7 CSR 10-6.085 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1420
 7 CSR 10-6.090 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1423
 7 CSR 10-6.100 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1424
 7 CSR 10-7.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1645
 7 CSR 10-12.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1646
 7 CSR 10-12.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1646
 7 CSR 10-12.030 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1647
 7 CSR 10-17.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1648
 7 CSR 10-17.030 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1651
 7 CSR 10-17.040 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1652
 7 CSR 10-17.050 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1653
 7 CSR 10-17.060 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1654
 7 CSR 10-18.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 91 42 MoReg 1655
 7 CSR 10-19.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 93R
 7 CSR 10-24.010 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 39
 7 CSR 10-24.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 41
 7 CSR 10-24.030 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 41
 7 CSR 10-24.050 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 42
 7 CSR 10-24.060 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 43
 7 CSR 10-24.070 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 43
 7 CSR 10-24.080 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 43
 7 CSR 10-24.100 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 44
 7 CSR 10-24.110 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 44
 7 CSR 10-24.120 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 45
 7 CSR 10-24.140 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 45
 7 CSR 10-24.200 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 46
 7 CSR 10-24.210 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 46
 7 CSR 10-24.300 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 46
 7 CSR 10-24.330 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 43 MoReg 47
 7 CSR 10-27.020 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1656
 7 CSR 10-27.040 Missouri Highways and Transportation Commission 42 MoReg 1656
 7 CSR 60-2.010 Traffic and Highway Safety Division 41 MoReg 1688
 7 CSR 60-2.020 Traffic and Highway Safety Division 41 MoReg 1689
 7 CSR 60-2.030 Traffic and Highway Safety Division 41 MoReg 1690
 7 CSR 60-2.040 Traffic and Highway Safety Division 41 MoReg 1695
 7 CSR 60-2.050 Traffic and Highway Safety Division 41 MoReg 1699
 7 CSR 60-2.060 Traffic and Highway Safety Division 41 MoReg 1699
 7 CSR 265-9.010 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1657
 7 CSR 265-9.020 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1658
 7 CSR 265-9.040 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1659R
 7 CSR 265-9.050 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1659
 7 CSR 265-9.060 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1660R
 7 CSR 265-9.070 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1660
 7 CSR 265-9.090 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1661R
 7 CSR 265-9.100 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1661
 7 CSR 265-9.110 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1661
 7 CSR 265-9.130 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1662
 7 CSR 265-9.140 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1662R
 7 CSR 265-9.150 Motor Carrier and Railroad Safety 42 MoReg 1663R
 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
8 CSR Department of Labor and Industrial Relations 41 MoReg 845
 8 CSR 10-5.015 Division of Employment Security 43 MoReg 7
 DEPARTMENT OF MENTAL HEALTH
9 CSR Department of Mental Health 41 MoReg 845
 9 CSR 45-4.010 Division of Developmental Disabilities 42 MoReg 1761
 
 February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
Missouri Register Page 229
 Rule Number Agency Emergency Proposed Order In Addition
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
10 CSR Department of Natural Resources 41 MoReg 845
 10 CSR 1-2.030 Director’s Office This IssueR
 10 CSR 10-6.250 Air Conservation Commission 40 MoReg 1023 41 MoReg 37
 10 CSR 20-1.010 Clean Water Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 20-1.020 Clean Water Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 20-4.020 Clean Water Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 20-4.021 Clean Water Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 20-4.022 Clean Water Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 20-4.043 Clean Water Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 20-4.049 Clean Water Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 20-4.060 Clean Water Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 20-4.070 Clean Water Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 20-7.031 Clean Water Commission 42 MoReg 1424
 10 CSR 22-1.010 Dam and Reservoir Safety Council This IssueR
 10 CSR 22-1.030 Dam and Reservoir Safety Council This IssueR
 10 CSR 22-2.060 Dam and Reservoir Safety Council This IssueR
 10 CSR 22-4.010 Dam and Reservoir Safety Council This IssueR
 10 CSR 23-1.020 Division of Geology and Land Survey This IssueR
 10 CSR 23-3.025 Division of Geology and Land Survey This IssueR
 10 CSR 24-2.010 Hazardous Substance Emergency Response
Office This IssueR
 10 CSR 24-3.010 Hazardous Substance Emergency Response
Office This IssueR
 10 CSR 30-1.010 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1584R
 10 CSR 30-2.010 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1584R
 10 CSR 30-2.020 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1584R
 10 CSR 30-2.030 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1585R
 10 CSR 30-2.040 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1585R
 10 CSR 30-2.050 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1585R
 10 CSR 30-2.060 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1585R
 10 CSR 30-2.070 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1586R
 10 CSR 30-2.080 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1586R
 10 CSR 30-2.090 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1586R
 10 CSR 30-2.100 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1587R
 10 CSR 30-2.110 Land Survey 42 MoReg 1587R
 10 CSR 50-1.010 Oil and Gas Council This IssueR
 10 CSR 60-1.010 Safe Drinking Water Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 60-4.020 Safe Drinking Water Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 60-4.092 Safe Drinking Water Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 60-4.110 Safe Drinking Water Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-1.010 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-7.100 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-7.110 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-7.120 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-7.130 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-7.140 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-7.150 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-8.010 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-8.020 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-8.030 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-8.040 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-8.050 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-8.060 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-8.070 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-8.080 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-8.090 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-8.100 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-8.110 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 70-8.120 Soil and Water Districts Commission This IssueR
 10 CSR 80-1.010 Solid Waste Management This IssueR
 10 CSR 80-2.050 Solid Waste Management This IssueR
 10 CSR 80-2.060 Solid Waste Management This IssueR
 10 CSR 80-2.070 Solid Waste Management This IssueR
 10 CSR 80-8.060 Solid Waste Management This IssueR
 10 CSR 80-9.040 Solid Waste Management This IssueR
 10 CSR 80-10.040 Solid Waste Management This IssueR
 10 CSR 90-1.010 State Parks This IssueR
 10 CSR 90-2.060 State Parks This IssueR
 10 CSR 90-3.050 State Parks This IssueR
 10 CSR 90-3.060 State Parks This IssueR
 10 CSR 90-3.070 State Parks This IssueR
 10 CSR 90-3.080 State Parks This IssueR
 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
11 CSR Department of Public Safety 42 MoReg 990
 11 CSR 30-16.010 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 180
 11 CSR 30-16.020 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 182
 11 CSR 45-1.040 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 48R
 11 CSR 45-4.020 Missouri Gaming Commission 41 MoReg 1543
 11 CSR 45-4.070 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 48R
 11 CSR 45-4.430 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 49R
 11 CSR 45-5.020 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 49R
 11 CSR 45-5.053 Missouri Gaming Commission 41 MoReg 1543
 11 CSR 45-5.250 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 49R
 11 CSR 45-5.280 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 49R
 11 CSR 45-5.400 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 50R
 11 CSR 45-5.410 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 50R
 11 CSR 45-5.420 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 50R
 11 CSR 45-6.050 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 50R
 
 Page 230
Rule Changes Since Update
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Rule Number Agency Emergency Proposed Order In Addition
11 CSR 45-6.060 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 51R
 11 CSR 45-7.140 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 51R
 11 CSR 45-8.160 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 51R
 11 CSR 45-9.120 Missouri Gaming Commission 41 MoReg 1544
 11 CSR 45-10.070 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 52R
 11 CSR 45-10.080 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 52R
 11 CSR 45-10.115 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 52R
 11 CSR 45-11.170 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 52R
 11 CSR 45-11.180 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 53R
 11 CSR 45-14.010 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 53R
 11 CSR 45-14.020 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 53R
 11 CSR 45-14.030 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 53R
 11 CSR 45-14.040 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 54R
 11 CSR 45-14.050 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 54R
 11 CSR 45-16.010 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 54R
 11 CSR 45-16.020 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 55R
 11 CSR 45-16.030 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 55R
 11 CSR 45-16.040 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 55R
 11 CSR 45-16.050 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 55R
 11 CSR 45-16.060 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 56R
 11 CSR 45-16.070 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 56R
 11 CSR 45-16.080 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 56R
 11 CSR 45-16.090 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 56R
 11 CSR 45-30.500 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 57R
 11 CSR 45-31.005 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 57R
 11 CSR 45-60.010 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 57R
 11 CSR 45-60.020 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 58R
 11 CSR 45-60.025 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 58R
 11 CSR 45-60.030 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 58R
 11 CSR 45-60.040 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 58R
 11 CSR 45-60.050 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 59R
 11 CSR 45-60.055 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 59R
 11 CSR 45-60.060 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 59R
 11 CSR 45-61.010 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 60R
 11 CSR 45-61.015 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 60R
 11 CSR 45-61.020 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 60R
 11 CSR 45-61.021 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 60R
 11 CSR 45-61.022 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 61R
 11 CSR 45-61.023 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 61R
 11 CSR 45-61.024 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 61R
 11 CSR 45-61.025 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 62R
 11 CSR 45-61.026 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 62R
 11 CSR 45-61.027 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 62R
 11 CSR 45-61.028 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 62R
 11 CSR 45-61.029 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 63R
 11 CSR 45-61.030 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 63R
 11 CSR 45-62.010 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 63R
 11 CSR 45-62.020 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 64R
 11 CSR 45-62.030 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 64R
 11 CSR 45-62.035 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 64R
 11 CSR 45-62.040 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 64R
 11 CSR 45-62.050 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 65R
 11 CSR 45-62.055 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 65R
 11 CSR 45-62.060 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 65R
 11 CSR 45-62.070 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 66R
 11 CSR 45-62.080 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 66R
 11 CSR 45-62.090 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 66R
 11 CSR 45-62.100 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 66R
 11 CSR 45-62.110 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 67R
 11 CSR 45-62.120 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 67R
 11 CSR 45-62.130 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 67R
 11 CSR 45-62.140 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 68R
 11 CSR 45-62.145 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 68R
 11 CSR 45-62.150 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 68R
 11 CSR 45-62.160 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 68R
 11 CSR 45-62.170 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 69R
 11 CSR 45-62.180 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 69R
 11 CSR 45-62.190 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 69R
 11 CSR 45-62.200 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 70R
 11 CSR 45-62.205 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 70R
 11 CSR 45-62.210 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 70R
 11 CSR 45-62.220 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 70R
 11 CSR 45-62.230 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 71R
 11 CSR 45-62.240 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 71R
 11 CSR 45-62.250 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 71R
 11 CSR 45-62.260 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 72R
 11 CSR 45-65.010 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 72R
 11 CSR 45-65.020 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 72R
 11 CSR 45-65.030 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 72R
 11 CSR 45-65.035 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 73R
 11 CSR 45-65.040 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 73R
 11 CSR 45-67.010 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 73R
 11 CSR 45-70.010 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 74R
 11 CSR 45-70.011 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 74R
 11 CSR 45-70.012 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 74R
 11 CSR 45-70.040 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 74R
 11 CSR 45-80.010 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 75R
 11 CSR 45-80.020 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 75R
 11 CSR 45-80.030 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 75R
 11 CSR 45-80.040 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 76R
 11 CSR 45-80.050 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 76R
 11 CSR 45-80.060 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 76R
 
 February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
Missouri Register Page 231
 Rule Number Agency Emergency Proposed Order In Addition
 11 CSR 45-80.070 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 76R
 11 CSR 45-80.080 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 77R
 11 CSR 45-80.090 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 77R
 11 CSR 45-80.091 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 77R
 11 CSR 45-80.100 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 78R
 11 CSR 45-80.110 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 78R
 11 CSR 45-80.120 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 78R
 11 CSR 45-80.130 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 78R
 11 CSR 45-80.140 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 79R
 11 CSR 45-80.150 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 79R
 11 CSR 45-80.160 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 79R
 11 CSR 45-80.170 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 80R
 11 CSR 45-80.180 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 80R
 11 CSR 45-80.190 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 80R
 11 CSR 45-80.200 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 80R
 11 CSR 45-80.210 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 81R
 11 CSR 45-80.220 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 81R
 11 CSR 45-80.230 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 81R
 11 CSR 45-80.240 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 82R
 11 CSR 45-80.250 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 82R
 11 CSR 45-90.010 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 82R
 11 CSR 45-90.020 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 82R
 11 CSR 45-90.030 Missouri Gaming Commission 43 MoReg 83R
 11 CSR 50-2.010 Missouri State Highway Patrol 42 MoReg 1751 42 MoReg 1764
 DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE
12 CSR Department of Revenue 42 MoReg 990
 12 CSR 10-23.130 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.140 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.150 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.230 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.250 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.265 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.300 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.315 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.325 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.330 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.335 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.355 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.432 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.434 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.452 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.454 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.456 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-23.458 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-24.010 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-24.020 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-24.040 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-24.070 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-24.100 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-24.200 Director of Revenue 42 MoReg 1232 42 MoReg 1799
 12 CSR 10-24.404 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-24.428 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-24.438 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-24.460 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-24.465 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-25.050 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-25.060 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-25.070 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-25.080 Director of Revenue This IssueR
 12 CSR 10-41.010 Director of Revenue 42 MoReg 1752 42 MoReg 1765
 12 CSR 30-2.015 State Tax Commission 43 MoReg 7R
 12 CSR 30-3.025 State Tax Commission 43 MoReg 8R
 12 CSR 30-3.040 State Tax Commission 43 MoReg 8R
 12 CSR 30-3.050 State Tax Commission 43 MoReg 8R
 12 CSR 30-3.060 State Tax Commission 43 MoReg 8R
 12 CSR 30-3.065 State Tax Commission 43 MoReg 9R
 12 CSR 30-3.070 State Tax Commission 43 MoReg 9R
 12 CSR 30-3.080 State Tax Commission 43 MoReg 9R
 12 CSR 30-3.085 State Tax Commission 43 MoReg 9R
 12 CSR 30-4.010 State Tax Commission 41 MoReg 160 This Issue
 12 CSR 40-10.010 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-10.040 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-15.010 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-20.010 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-20.020 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-40.015 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-40.030 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-40.070 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-40.100 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-40.120 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-40.130 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-40.150 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-40.170 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-40.180 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-40.220 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-40.250 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-40.260 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-40.270 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-40.280 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-50.010 State Lottery This Issue

 Page 232
Rule Changes Since Update
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Rule Number Agency Emergency Proposed Order In Addition
12 CSR 40-50.030 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-50.060 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-60.040 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-60.050 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-70.050 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-70.080 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-80.010 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-80.020 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-80.030 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-80.050 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-80.090 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-80.100 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-80.110 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-80.130 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-85.005 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-85.010 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-85.030 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-85.050 State Lottery This Issue
 12 CSR 40-85.060 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-85.070 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-85.080 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-85.090 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-85.100 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-85.170 State Lottery This IssueR
 12 CSR 40-90.110 State Lottery This IssueR
 DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES
13 CSR Department of Social Services 42 MoReg 990
 13 CSR 40-2.030 Family Support Division 42 MoReg 1057 42 MoReg 1072 42 MoReg 1799
 13 CSR 40-2.080 Family Support Division 42 MoReg 1587
 13 CSR 40-8.020 Family Support Division 42 MoReg 1060 42 MoReg 1086 42 MoReg 1799
 13 CSR 40-34.070 Family Support Division 42 MoReg 1588R
 13 CSR 40-91.040 Family Support Division 42 MoReg 1835R
 13 CSR 70-3.030 MO HealthNet Division 42 MoReg 1589
 13 CSR 70-10.016 MO HealthNet Division 41 MoReg 1054
42 MoReg 1225 42 MoReg 1233 42 MoReg 1847
 13 CSR 70-10.030 MO HealthNet Division 42 MoReg 1356 42 MoReg 1377 43 MoReg 92
 13 CSR 70-10.150 MO HealthNet Division 42 MoReg 1835R
 13 CSR 70-15.010 MO HealthNet Division 42 MoReg 1061 42 MoReg 1097 42 MoReg 1799
 13 CSR 70-15.090 MO HealthNet Division 42 MoReg 1835
 13 CSR 70-15.110 MO HealthNet Division 42 MoReg 1063 42 MoReg 1101 42 MoReg 1799
 13 CSR 70-91.020 MO HealthNet Division 42 MoReg 1838R
 13 CSR 70-96.010 MO HealthNet Division 42 MoReg 1838R
 DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
14 CSR Department of Corrections 42 MoReg 990
 14 CSR 80-3.020 State Board of Probation and Parole 42 MoReg 1768
 ELECTED OFFICIALS
15 CSR 30-120.010 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1297 42 MoReg 1318
 15 CSR 30-120.020 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1298 42 MoReg 1318
 15 CSR 30-120.030 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1298 42 MoReg 1319
 15 CSR 30-120.040 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1299 42 MoReg 1320
 15 CSR 30-120.050 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1299 42 MoReg 1320
 15 CSR 30-120.060 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1300 42 MoReg 1321
 15 CSR 30-120.070 Secretary of State 42 MoReg 1301 42 MoReg 1321
 RETIREMENT SYSTEMS
16 CSR 10-5.010 The Public School Retirement System of Missouri 42 MoReg 1552 This Issue
 16 CSR 10-6.060 The Public School Retirement System of Missouri 42 MoReg 1553 This Issue
 16 CSR 50-2.010 The County Employees’ Retirement Fund 42 MoReg 1591
 16 CSR 50-2.030 The County Employees’ Retirement Fund 42 MoReg 1592
 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND SENIOR SERVICES
19 CSR 10-10 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 991
 19 CSR 10-15.010 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1768
 19 CSR 10-15.020 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1769
 19 CSR 10-15.030 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1769
 19 CSR 10-15.040 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1770R
 19 CSR 10-15.050 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1752 42 MoReg 1770
 19 CSR 10-33.010 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1774
 19 CSR 10-33.050 Office of the Director 42 MoReg 1774
 19 CSR 15-8.410 Division of Senior and Disability Services 40 MoReg 131
 19 CSR 20-1.040 Division of Community and Public Health 42 MoReg 1639 42 MoReg 1663
 19 CSR 30-30.050 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1776
 19 CSR 30-30.060 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1777
 19 CSR 30-30.061 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1754 42 MoReg 1785
 19 CSR 30-30.070 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1789
 19 CSR 30-40.365 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1322
 19 CSR 30-40.720 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1302 42 MoReg 1322
 19 CSR 30-81.030 Division of Regulation and Licensure 42 MoReg 1137 42 MoReg 1197 43 MoReg 92
 19 CSR 60-50 Missouri Health Facilities Review Committee 42 MoReg 1800 43 MoReg 15 43 MoReg 93
 DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION
20 CSR Applied Behavior Analysis Maximum Benefit 42 MoReg 321
 20 CSR Construction Claims Binding Arbitration Cap 42 MoReg 1851
20 CSR Sovereign Immunity Limits   42 MoReg 1851
20 CSR State Legal Expense Fund Cap     42 MoReg 1851
20 CSR 2010-2.160 Missouri State Board of Accountancy 42 MoReg 1790
 20 CSR 2015-1.030 Acupuncturist Advisory Committee 42 MoReg 156
 
 February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
Missouri Register Page 233
 Rule Number Agency Emergency Proposed Order In Addition
 20 CSR 2030-5.050 Missouri Board for Architects, Professional Engineers, Professional Land Surveyors, and
Professional Landscape Architects 42 MoReg 1838R
 20 CSR 2070-2.090 State Board of Chiropractic Examiners 41 MoReg 1525
 20 CSR 2110-2.085 Missouri Dental Board 43 MoReg 10R
 20 CSR 2110-2.110 Missouri Dental Board 43 MoReg 10R
 20 CSR 2110-2.111 Missouri Dental Board 43 MoReg 10R
 20 CSR 2110-2.132 Missouri Dental Board 43 MoReg 10R
 20 CSR 2110-2.140 Missouri Dental Board 43 MoReg 11R
 20 CSR 2110-2.150 Missouri Dental Board 43 MoReg 11R
 20 CSR 2110-2.220 Missouri Dental Board 43 MoReg 11R
 20 CSR 2150-3.040 State Board of Registration for the Healing
Arts 43 MoReg 83
 20 CSR 2150-7.135 State Board of Registration for the Healing
Arts 43 MoReg 83
 20 CSR 2150-7.136 State Board of Registration for the Healing
Arts 43 MoReg 85R
 20 CSR 2150-7.137 State Board of Registration for the Healing
Arts 43 MoReg 85R
 20 CSR 2197-1.040 Board of Therapeutic Massage 41 MoReg 825
 20 CSR 2200-1.010 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1838R
 20 CSR 2200-1.020 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1839R
 20 CSR 2200-4.022 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1663R
 20 CSR 2200-4.025 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1664R
 20 CSR 2200-4.026 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1664R
 20 CSR 2200-4.027 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1664R
 20 CSR 2200-4.028 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1664R
 20 CSR 2200-4.029 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1665R
 20 CSR 2200-6.060 State Board of Nursing 42 MoReg 1327 43 MoReg 14
 20 CSR 2205-5.010 Missouri Board of Occupational Therapy 42 MoReg 1839
 20 CSR 2220-2.025 State Board of Pharmacy 42 MoReg 1665
 20 CSR 2220-2.085 State Board of Pharmacy 43 MoReg 85
 20 CSR 2220-2.650 State Board of Pharmacy 42 MoReg 1227 42 MoReg 1240 42 MoReg 1848
 20 CSR 2220-6.040 State Board of Pharmacy 43 MoReg 86
 20 CSR 2245-2.050 Real Estate Appraisers 42 MoReg 1842
 20 CSR 2245-6.010 Real Estate Appraisers 43 MoReg 12R
 20 CSR 2245-10.010 Real Estate Appraisers 42 MoReg 1842
 20 CSR 2245-10.020 Real Estate Appraisers 42 MoReg 1845
 20 CSR 2245-10.030 Real Estate Appraisers 42 MoReg 1845
 20 CSR 2263-2.045 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1327R 43 MoReg 14R
 20 CSR 2263-2.050 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1592
 20 CSR 2263-2.051 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1596
 20 CSR 2263-2.060 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1599
 20 CSR 2263-2.082 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1602
 20 CSR 2263-2.085 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1602
 20 CSR 2263-3.040 State Committee for Social Workers 42 MoReg 1606
 MISSOURI CONSOLIDATED HEALTH CARE PLAN
22 CSR 10-2.030 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1755 42 MoReg 1793
 22 CSR 10-2.089 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1756 42 MoReg 1793
 22 CSR 10-2.094 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1358R 42 MoReg 1382R 42 MoReg 1358 42 MoReg 1382
 22 CSR 10-2.120 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1359R 42 MoReg 1383R 42 MoReg 1359 42 MoReg 1383
 22 CSR 10-2.135 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1756 42 MoReg 1794
 22 CSR 10-3.090 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1757 42 MoReg 1794
 22 CSR 10-3.135 Health Care Plan 42 MoReg 1758 42 MoReg 1795

 MISSOURI Emergency Rule Table February 1, 2018 REGISTER Vol. 43, No. 3
   Agency Publication
Effective
. . . .Oct. 29, 2017
. . .Aug. 28, 2017 . . . . .Jan. 1, 2018
. . . . .July 1, 2017 . . . . .July 1, 2017
. . . .Aug. 1, 2017
. . . .Sept. 1, 2017
. . . . .July 1, 2017 . . . . .July 1, 2017
. . . . .June 1, 2017 . . . . .June 1, 2017 . . . . .June 2, 2017
. . . . .June 1, 2017
. . . . .June 1, 2017
. . . . .June 1, 2017 . . .Aug. 28, 2017 . . .Aug. 28, 2017
. . .Aug. 28, 2017 . . .Aug. 28, 2017 . . .Aug. 28, 2017 . . .Aug. 28, 2017 . . .Aug. 28, 2017
. . . .Nov. 3, 2017 . . . .Oct. 23, 2017
. . . .Nov. 3, 2017 . . . Aug. 17, 2017
. . . July 15, 2017
Expiration
. . . .April 26, 2018
. . . . .Feb. 23, 2018 . . . . .June 29, 2018
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 27, 2018
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018
. . . . .May 1, 2018 . . . .April 20, 2018
. . . . .May 1, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018
Department of Public Safety
Missouri State Highway Patrol
11 CSR 50-2.010 Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Department of Revenue
Director of Revenue
12 CSR 10-23.600 Complaint, Inspection, and Disciplinary Process for
Transportation Network Companies . . . . . . . . . . 12 CSR 10-41.010 Annual Adjusted Rate of Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Department of Social Services
Family Support Division
13 CSR 40-2.030 Definitions Relating to Real and Personal Property 13 CSR 40-8.020 Ways of Treating Income and Assets . . . . . . . . . . MO HealthNet Division
... .
... . . . . .
... . ... .
.42 MoReg 1751
.42 MoReg 1223 .42 MoReg 1752
.42 MoReg 1057 .42 MoReg 1060
.42 MoReg 1225
13 CSR 70-10.016 13 CSR 70-10.030 13 CSR 70-15.010 13 CSR 70-15.110
Elected Officials Secretary of State 15 CSR 30-3.010 15 CSR 30-3.020
15 CSR 30-3.030 15 CSR 30-3.040
15 CSR 30-3.050
15 CSR 30-3.100
15 CSR 30-120.010 15 CSR 30-120.020 15 CSR 30-120.030
15 CSR 30-120.040 15 CSR 30-120.050 15 CSR 30-120.060 15 CSR 30-120.070
Global Per Diem Adjustments to Nursing Facility and HIV Nursing Facility Reimbursement Rates . . . . . . . . . . ..
Prospective Reimbursement Plan for Nonstate-Operated Facilities for ICF/IID Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
.42 MoReg 1356 Outpatient Hospital Services Reimbursement Methodology 42 MoReg 1061
Inpatient Hospital Services Reimbursement Plan;
Federal Reimbursement Allowance (FRA) . . . . . . . . . .
Voter Identification Affidavit (Res) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Provisional Ballots and Envelopes for Registered Voters
under Voter Identification Law . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Procedures for Registered Voters Returning to the Polling
Place with Identification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Procedures for Identity Verification for Provisional Ballots
for Registered Voters under Voter Identification Law,
Counting Approved Ballots, and Recordkeeping . . . .. . Voter Inquiries as to Whether Provisional Ballot for
Registered Voter was Counted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . Procedures for Obtaining One (1) Copy of Documents
Needed to Obtain Free Personal Identification for Voting
.42 MoReg 1063
.42 MoReg 956 .42 MoReg 957 .42 MoReg 958
.42 MoReg 958
.42 MoReg 959
.42 MoReg 960 .42 MoReg 1297 .42 MoReg 1298
.42 MoReg 1298 .42 MoReg 1299 .42 MoReg 1299 .42 MoReg 1300 .42 MoReg 1301
.42 MoReg 1752 .42 MoReg 1639
.42 MoReg 1754 .42 MoReg 1302
.42 MoReg 1137
Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Application to Register as a Family Trust Company Application to Register as a Foreign Family Trust
Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........ .. Annual Registration Report . . . . . ......... .. Records . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ......... .. Examination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ......... .. Application Process and Forms . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
.. . . .. . .
.. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . .
Department of Health and Senior Services
Office of the Director
19 CSR 10-15.050 Complication Plans for Certain Drug- and Chemically-
Induced Abortions by Physicians Via Hospitals . . . . . . .
Division of Community and Public Health
19 CSR 20-1.040 Good Manufacturing Practices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Division of Regulation and Licensure
19 CSR 30-30.061
19 CSR 30-40.720 19 CSR 30-81.030
Complication Plans for Certain Drug- and Chemically- Induced Abortions Via Abortion Facilities . . . . . . . . . . Stroke Center Designation Application and Review . . . . .
Evaluation and Assessment Measures for Title XIX Recipients and Applicants in Long-Term Care Facilities .
234
  
  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
 Missouri Register
Page 235
  Agency Publication
Department of Insurance, Financial Institutions and Professional Registration
State Board of Nursing
20 CSR 2200-4.020 Requirements for Licensure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 861 State Board of Pharmacy
20 CSR 2220-2.650 Standards of Operation for a Class J: Shared Services
Pharmacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1227
State Committee of Marital and Family Therapists
20 CSR 2233-1.040 Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1065
Missouri Consolidated Health Care Plan Health Care Plan
Effective
. . . . .May 9, 2017
. . . .Aug. 6, 2017 . . . .Aug. 1, 2017
. . . . .Jan. 1, 2018
. . . . .Jan. 1, 2018 . . . .Oct. 1, 2017 . . . .Oct. 1, 2017 . . . .Oct. 1, 2017 . . . .Oct. 1, 2017 . . . .Nov. 6, 2017
. . . . .Jan. 1, 2018 . . . .Nov. 6, 2017
Expiration
. . . . .Feb. 15, 2018
. . . . .Feb. 22, 2018 . . . . .Feb. 22, 2018
. . . . .June 29, 2018
. . . . .June 29, 2018 . . .March 29, 2018 . . .March 29, 2018 . . .March 29, 2018 . . .March 29, 2018 . . . . .May 4, 2018
. . . . .June 29, 2018 . . . . .May 4, 2018
22 CSR 10-2.030 22 CSR 10-2.089
22 CSR 10-2.094 22 CSR 10-2.094 22 CSR 10-2.120 22 CSR 10-2.120 22 CSR 10-2.135 22 CSR 10-3.090 22 CSR 10-3.135
Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1755 Pharmacy Employer Group Waiver Plan for Medicare
Primary Members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1756 Tobacco-Free Incentive Provisions and Limitations (Res.) . .42 MoReg 1358 Tobacco-Free Incentive Provisions and Limitations . . . . . .42 MoReg 1358 Partnership Incentive Provisions and Limitations (Res.) . . .42 MoReg 1359 Partnership Incentive Provisions and Limitations . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1359 Benefit Package Option . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1756 Pharmacy Benefit Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1757 Benefit Package Option . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 MoReg 1758
 
 MISSOURI Executive Orders February 1, 2018 REGISTER Vol. 43, No. 3
   Executive
Orders Subject Matter
18-01 Rescinds Executive Order 07-21.
2018
Filed Date Publication
Jan. 4, 2018 Next Issue
  2017
17-24 Designates members of the governor’s staff to have supervisory authority
over departments, divisions, and agencies of state government. Nov. 17, 2017 43 MoReg 5
  17-23 Advises that state offices will be closed on Friday, November 24, 2017. Nov. 1, 2017 42 MoReg 1640
 17-22 Implements the Emergency Mutual Assistance Compact and activates the state
militia to aid the U.S. Virgin Islands in response to Hurricane Maria. Sept. 20, 2017 42 MoReg 1579
 17-21 Governor activates the state militia in anticipation of unrest in the
St. Louis region. Sept. 14, 2017 42 MoReg 1411
 17-20 Governor establishes a board of inquiry to review evidence and provide a
recommendation on the death sentence for inmate Marcellus Williams. Aug. 22, 2017 42 MoReg 1361
 Proclamation Governor notifies the General Assembly that he is reducing appropriation
lines in the fiscal year 2018 budget and permanently reducing appropriation
lines in the fiscal year 2017 budget. Aug. 1, 2017 42 MoReg 1307
 17-19 Directs the Department of Health and Senior Services, the Department of
Mental Health, the Department of Public Safety, the Department of Natural
Resources, and the Department of Conservation to identify, train, equip, and
assess law enforcement and emergency responder efforts to combat
Missouri’s Opioid Public Health Crisis. July 18, 2017 42 MoReg 1229
 17-18 Directs the Department of Health and Senior Services to create a
prescription drug monitoring program. July 17, 2017 42 MoReg 1143
 Amended
Proclamation Governor convenes the Second Extra Session of the First Regular Session
of the Ninety-Ninth General Assembly regarding abortions facilities. July 6, 2017 42 MoReg 1139
 17-17 Creates the Missouri Justice Reinvest Taskforce to analyze Missouri’s
corrections system and recommend improvements. June 28, 2017 42 MoReg 1067
 Proclamation Governor convenes the Second Extra Session of the First Regular Session
of the Ninety-Ninth General Assembly regarding abortions facilities. June 7, 2017 42 MoReg 1024
 Proclamation Governor convenes the First Extra Session of the First Regular Session
of the Ninety-Ninth General Assembly regarding attracting new jobs to
Missouri. May18, 2017 42 MoReg 1022
 17-16 Temporarily grants the Director of the Missouri Department of Revenue
discretionary authority to adjust certain rules and regulations. May 11, 2017 42 MoReg 909
 17-15 Temporarily grants the Director of the Missouri Department of Health
and Senior Services discretionary authority to adjust certain rules
and regulations. May 8, 2017 42 MoReg 907
 17-14 Temporarily grants the Director of the Missouri Department of Natural
Resources discretionary authority to adjust certain environmental rules
and regulations. May 4, 2017 42 MoReg 905
 17-13 Activates the state militia in response to severe weather that began on
April 28, 2017. April 30, 2017 42 MoReg 865
 17-12 Declares a State of Emergency and activates the Missouri State Emergency
Operations Plan due to severe weather beginning on April 28,2017. April 28, 2017 42 MoReg 863
 17-11 Establishes the Boards and Commissions Task Force to recommend
comprehensive executive and legislative reform proposals to the governor
by October 31, 2017. April 11, 2017 42 MoReg 779
 17-10 Designates members of the governor’s staff to have supervisory authority
over departments, divisions, and agencies of state government. April 7, 2017 42 MoReg 777
 17-09 Establishes parental leave for state employees of the executive branch of
Missouri state government and encourages other state officials to adopt
comparable policies. March 13, 2017 42 MoReg 429
 17-08 Declares a State of Emergency and activates the Missouri State Emergency
Operations Plan due to severe weather that began on March 6. March 7, 2017 42 MoReg 427
 17-07 Establishes the Governor’s Committee for Simple, Fair, and Low Taxes to
recommend proposed reforms to the governor by June 30, 2017. January 25, 2017 42 MoReg 315
 236

     February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
Missouri Register
Page 237
 Executive
Orders Subject Matter Filed Date Publication
17-06 Orders that the Missouri State Emergency Operations Plan be activated.
Further orders state agencies to provide assistance to the maximum extent
practicable and directs the Adjutant General to call into service such portions
of the organized militia as he deems necessary. January 12, 2017 42 MoReg 267
 17-05 Activates the Missouri State Emergency Operation Center due to severe
weather expected to begin on Jan. 12, 2017. January 11, 2017 42 MoReg 266
 17-04 Establishes the position of Chief Operating Officer to report directly to the
governor and serve as a member of the governor’s executive team. January 11, 2017 42 MoReg 264
 17-03 Orders every state agency to immediately suspend all rulemaking until Feb.
28, 2017, and to complete a review of every regulation under its jurisdiction
within the Code of State Regulations by May 31, 2018. January 10, 2017 42 MoReg 261
 17-02 Orders state employees of the executive branch of Missouri state government
to follow a specified code of conduct regarding ethics during the
Greitens administration. January 9, 2017 42 MoReg 258
 17-01 Rescinds Executive Orders 07-10, 88-26, 98-15, and 05-40 regarding the
Governor’s Advisory Council on Physical Fitness and Health and the
Missouri State Park Advisory Board. January 6, 2017 42 MoReg 257
 
  MISSOURI Index February 1, 2018 REGISTER Vol. 43, No. 3
 The rule number and the MoReg publication date follow each entry to this index.
 ACCOUNTANCY, MISSOURI STATE BOARD OF
fees; 20 CSR 2010-2.160; 12/1/17
ACUPUNCTURIST ADVISORY COMMITTEE
fees; 20 CSR 2015-1.030; 2/1/17
ADMINISTRATION, OFFICE OF
definition of terms; 1 CSR 20-5.015; 11/1/16
leaves of absence; 1 CSR 20-5.020; 11/1/16
state official’s salary compensation schedule; 1 CSR 10; 12/15/17
AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF
Missouri agricultural and small business development authority Missouri dairy scholars program; 2 CSR 100-11.020; 5/2/16,
8/15/16
ARCHITECTS, PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERS, PROFES- SIONAL LAND SURVEYORS, AND PROFESSIONAL LAND- SCAPE ARCHITECTS, MISSOURI BOARD FOR
admission to examination–architects; 20 CSR 2030-5.050; 12/15/17
CERTIFICATE OF NEED PROGRAM
application review schedule; 19 CSR 60-50; 12/1/17, 1/2/18, 1/16/18
CHIROPRACTIC EXAMINERS, STATE BOARD OF
fees; 20 CSR 2070-2.090; 11/1/16
CLEAN WATER COMMISSION
clean water commission appeals and requests for hearings; 10 CSR 20-1.020; 2/1/18
hardship grant program; 10 CSR 20-4.043; 2/1/18
industrial development program; 10 CSR 20-4.022; 2/1/18 organizations and powers; 10 CSR 20-1.010; 2/1/18
sales tax exemption; 10 CSR 20-4.070; 2/1/18
state construction grant program; 10 CSR 20-4.021; 2/1/18
state match grant program; 10 CSR 20-4.020; 2/1/18
state match to state revolving fund loan program; 10 CSR 20-4.049;
2/1/18
stormwater assistance regulation; 10 CSR 20-4.060; 2/1/18 water quality standards; 10 CSR 20-7.031; 10/16/17
CONSERVATION, DEPARTMENT OF
bullfrogs and green frogs; 3 CSR 10-12.115; 10/2/17, 1/16/18 commercial deer processing: permit, privileges, requirements; 3
dental practices; 20 CSR 2110-2.150; 1/2/18
mandatory reporting; 20 CSR 2110-2.220; 1/2/18
notice, change of employment–dental hygienists; 20 CSR 2110-
2.140; 1/2/18
DRIVER LICENSE BUREAU
commercial drivers license reciprocity; 12 CSR 10-24.404; 2/1/18 completion requirement for driving while intoxicated (DWI) rehabilitation program; 12 CSR 10-24.040; 2/1/18
Department of Revenue not designated as an election official; 12 CSR 10-24.438; 2/1/18
disqualification of commercial motor vehicle operators due to railroad-highway grade crossing violations; 12 CSR 10- 24.465; 2/1/18
driver license procedures for persons under the age of twenty-one; 12 CSR 10-24.100; 2/1/18
drivers license classes; 12 CSR 10-24.200; 9/1/17, 12/1/17 driver’s privacy protection act; 12 CSR 10-24.460; 2/1/18 excessive speed defined; 12 CSR 10-24.428; 2/1/18
form filing; 12 CSR 10-24.010; 2/1/18
license issuance procedures and one license concept of the drivers license compact; 12 CSR 10-24.070; 2/1/18
trial de novo procedures and parties; 12 CSR 10-24.020; 2/1/18
ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPART- MENT OF
administrative policies of the state schools for severely disabled
regarding approved private agencies; 5 CSR 20-300.150;
8/1/17, 12/1/17
certification requirements for initial student services certificate;
5 CSR 20-400.640; 11/1/17
Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, Part B; 5 CSR 20-
300.110; 12/1/17
persistently dangerous schools; 5 CSR 20-100.210; 8/1/17, 12/1/17 reporting requirements; 5 CSR 20-500.310; 12/1/17
standards for the determination of eligible training providers and
administration of reimbursement for the education of per- sons under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 and other employment training funding sources contracting with the State Board of Education; 5 CSR 20-500.340; 12/1/17
ENERGY, DIVISION OF
definitions and general provisions–membership; 4 CSR 340-6.010; 12/15/16
energy set-aside fund ; 4 CSR 340-2; 5/1/17
EXECUTIVE ORDERS
designates members of the governor’s staff to have supervisory authority over departments, divisions, and agencies of state government; 17-24; 1/2/18
FAMILY SUPPORT DIVISION
definitions relating to institutions; 13 CSR 40-2.080; 11/1/17 definitions relating to real and personal property; 13 CSR 40-
2.030; 8/1/17, 12/1/17
payments for vision examination; 13 CSR 40-91.040; 12/15/17 payment to school districts for special education services for chil-
dren in the custody of the Division of Family Services and placed in residential treatment facilities; 13 CSR 40- 34.070; 11/1/17
ways of treating income and assets; 13 CSR 40-8.020; 8/1/17, 12/1/17
FAMILY TRUST COMPANY
annual registration report; 15 CSR 30-120.040; 9/15/17 application process and forms; 15 CSR 30-120.070; 9/15/17 application to register as a family trust company; 15 CSR 30-
 deer
CSR 10-10.744; 10/2/17, 1/16/18
resident archery antlerless deer hunting permit; 3 CSR 10- 5.425; 10/2/17, 1/16/18
definitions; 3 CSR 10-20.805; 10/2/17, 1/16/18
field trial permit; 3 CSR 10-9.625; 10/2/17, 1/16/18
fishing, methods; 3 CSR 10-12.135; 10/2/17, 1/16/18
general prohibition; applications; 3 CSR 10-9.110; 10/2/17, 1/16/18 hunting, general provisions and seasons; 3 CSR 10-11.180;
10/2/17, 1/16/18
monetary values established for fish and wildlife; 3 CSR 10-3.010;
10/2/17, 1/16/18
record keeping and reporting required; commercial fishermen; 3 CSR
10-10.727; 10/2/17, 1/16/18
taxidermy; tanning: permits, privileges, requirements; 3 CSR 10-
10.767; 10/2/17, 1/16/18
turkeys: seasons, methods, limits; 3 CSR 10-7.455; 1/16/18 use of boats and motors; 3 CSR 10-12.110; 10/2/17, 1/16/18 use of traps; 3 CSR 10-8.510; 10/2/17, 1/16/18
CORRECTIONS, DEPARTMENT OF
conditions of lifetime supervision; 14 CSR 80-3.020; 12/1/17 Notice of Periodic Rule Review ;Title 14; 7/3/17
DENTAL BOARD, MISSOURI
addressing the public–dentists; 20 CSR 2110-2.110; 1/2/18 addressing the public–dental hygienists; 20 CSR 2110-2.111; 1/2/18 definitions of dental specialties; 20 CSR 2110-2.085; 1/2/18
dental hygienists–equipment requirements for public health settings;
20 CSR 2110-2.132; 1/2/18
120.020; 9/15/17
 238
   
  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 239
  application to register as a foreign family trust company; 15 CSR 30-120.030; 9/15/17
definitions; 15 CSR 30-120.010; 9/15/17 examination; 15 CSR 30-120.060; 9/15/17 records; 15 CSR 30-120.050; 9/15/17
GAMING COMMISSION, MISSOURI
adoption of rule 6 of U.S.T.A.; 11 CSR 45-61.030; 1/16/18
appeal of the decision of the judges; 11 CSR 45-90.020; 1/16/18 appeals to the commission to be heard de novo; 11 CSR 45-90.030;
1/16/18
appointment of racing officials and department heads; 11 CSR 45-
62.070; 1/16/18
association veterinarian; 11 CSR 45-61.028; 1/16/18
authority of supervisor; 11 CSR 45-14.030; 1/16/18
betting explanation; 11 CSR 45-80.150; 1/16/18
bingo on military installations; 11 CSR 45-30.500; 1/16/18 bleeder list; 11 CSR 45-70.040; 1/16/18
claiming; 11 CSR 45-70.012; 1/16/18
clerk of the scales; 11 CSR 45-61.024; 1/16/18
commission laboratory; 11 CSR 45-60.040; 1/16/18 commission may require certain persons to provide information;
11 CSR 45-16.060; 1/16/18
commission offices; 11 CSR 45-62.020; 1/16/18
commission officials; 11 CSR 45-60.010; 1/16/18
commission veterinarian; 11 CSR 45-60.030; 1/16/18 communication system; 11 CSR 45-62.230; 1/16/18 competitiveness standards; 11 CSR 45-4.070; 1/16/18 condition book; 11 CSR 45-62.090; 1/16/18
conflict between U.S.T.A. and commission rules; 11 CSR 45-
60.060; 1/16/18
coupled betting interests; 11 CSR 45-80.220; 1/16/18
daily double pool; 11 CSR 45-80.060; 1/16/18
definitions; 11 CSR 45-16.010; 1/16/18
detention enclosure; 11 CSR 45-62.150; 1/16/18 determination to seek supervisor; 11 CSR 45-14.020; 1/16/18 distance poles (thoroughbred and quarter horse); 11 CSR 45-
62.145; 1/16/18
distribution of earnings to former legal owners; 11 CSR 45-14.050;
1/16/18
driver’s stand; 11 CSR 45-62.130; 1/16/18
duties of specific licensees; 11 CSR 45-65.040; 1/16/18
effect of another jurisdiction’s orders; 11 CSR 45-10.070; 1/16/18 effect of suspension or revocation on spouse; 11 CSR 45-60.055;
1/16/18
electric timing device; 11 CSR 45-62.200; 1/16/18
ejection; 11 CSR 45-62.030; 1/16/18
ejection of patrons; 11 CSR 45-67.010; 1/16/18
emergency situations; 11 CSR 45-80.230; 1/16/18
enrollment of attorneys and scope of practice; 11 CSR 45-1.040;
1/16/18
estoppel; 11 CSR 45-11.180; 1/16/18
exacta pool (also knowns as perfecta); 11 CSR 45-80.080; 1/16/18 excursions during inclement weather or mechanical difficulties;
11 CSR 45-6.060; 1/16/18
exemptions; 11 CSR 45-11.170; 1/16/18
extension of time for reporting; 11 CSR 45-8.160; 1/16/18
failure to comply–consequences; 11 CSR 45-16.090; 1/16/18
fair market value of contracts; 11 CSR 45-10.080; 1/16/18
fees; 11 CSR 45-65.030; 1/16/18
finder’s fees; 11 CSR 45-5.250; 1/16/18
fire protection; 11 CSR 45-62.180; 1/16/18
forfeiture of illegal winnings; 11 CSR 45-5.280; 1/16/18
general; 11 CSR 45-80.010; 1/16/18
general considerations; 11 CSR 45-61.010; 1/16/18
general provisions for class C licenses; 11 CSR 45-65.010; 1/16/18 general requirements; 11 CSR 45-62.010; 1/16/18
grounds’ facilities, water and sewage; 11 CSR 45-62.160; 1/16/18 hippodroming ban; 11 CSR 45-62.220; 1/16/18
horse identifier–thoroughbred; 11 CSR 45-61.023; 1/16/18 information required of listed labor organization personnel; 11 CSR
45-16.050; 1/16/18
information required of local labor organization; 11 CSR 45-
16.040; 1/16/18
interest in class A licensee prohibited; 11 CSR 45-16.080;
jockey room custodian and valet attendants; 11 CSR 45-61.029; 1/16/18
judges; 11 CSR 45-60.020; 1/16/18
judges’ summary hearings; 11 CSR 45-90.010; 1/16/18 junket–agreements and final reports; 11 CSR 45-5.420; 1/16/18 junket enterprise; junket representative; agents; employees–policies
and prohibited activities; 11 CSR 45-5.410; 1/16/18 junket, junket enterprises, junket representatives–definitions;
11 CSR 45-5.400; 1/16/18
licenses, restrictions on licenses, licensing authority of the execu-
tive director, and other definitions; 11 CSR 45-4.020;
11/1/16
lighting; 11 CSR 45-62.205; 1/16/18
limited license; 11 CSR 45-6.050; 1/16/18
listening devices; 11 CSR 45-62.250; 1/16/18
list of barred persons; 11 CSR 45-10.115; 1/16/18
minimum internal control standards (MICS)–Chapter T; 11 CSR
45-9.120; 11/1/16
minimum wager and payoff; 11 CSR 45-80.130; 1/16/18 numbers of races per performance; 11 CSR 45-62.060; 1/16/18 odds or payoffs posted; 11 CSR 45-80.140; 1/16/18
over and under payments of payoffs; 11 CSR 45-80.210; 1/16/18 paddock judge–thoroughbred; 11 CSR 45-61.022; 1/16/18 pari-mutuel ticket sales; 11 CSR 45-80.170; 1/16/18
patrol and placing judges; 11 CSR 45-61.027; 1/16/18
patrol judge’s communication; 11 CSR 45-62.210; 1/16/18 payment; 11 CSR 45-80.180; 1/16/18
payment of purses; 11 CSR 45-62.260; 1/16/18
photo-finish equipment; 11 CSR 45-62.100; 1/16/18
photograph posted; 11 CSR 45-62.120; 1/16/18
place pool; 11 CSR 45-80.040; 1/16/18
policies; 11 CSR 45-5.053; 11/1/16
policy; 11 CSR 45-14.010; 1/16/18
pools authorized; 11 CSR 45-80.020; 1/16/18
pools dependent upon entries; 11 CSR 45-80.160; 1/16/18 posting of address of commission; 11 CSR 45-5.020; 1/16/18 primary and secondary liability; 11 CSR 45-62.240; 1/16/18 procedures for disciplinary actions and hearings; 11 CSR 45-
31.005; 1/16/18
program; 11 CSR 45-62.055; 1/16/18
prohibited acts; 11 CSR 45-65.035; 1/16/18
public information; 11 CSR 45-62.050; 1/16/18
quinella pool; 11 CSR 45-80.070; 1/16/18
race cancelled; 11 CSR 45-80.110; 1/16/18
racing secretary; 11 CSR 45-61.020; 1/16/18
racing secretary (thoroughbred); 11 CSR 45-61.021; 1/16/18 racing surfaces; 11 CSR 45-62.040; 1/16/18
refunds; 11 CSR 45-80.100; 1/16/18
registration exemption; 11 CSR 45-16.030; 1/16/18 registration required; 11 CSR 45-16.020; 1/16/18
required revisions of list; 11 CSR 45-16.070; 1/16/18 remission of outs and breakage; 11 CSR 45-80.250; 1/16/18 responsibility for posting results; 11 CSR 45-80.190; 1/16/18 requests for exemptions; 11 CSR 45-7.140; 1/16/18
rules of racing
harness; 11 CSR 45-70.010; 1/16/18
thoroughbred and quarter horse; 11 CSR 45-70.011; 1/16/18 safety and medical aid; 11 CSR 45-62.170; 1/16/18
show pool; 11 CSR 45-80.050; 1/16/18
specific licenses: 11 CSR 45-65.020; 1/16/18
stable and ground security; 11 CSR 45-62.190; 1/16/18
stands for officials–thoroughbred and quarter horse; 11 CSR 45-
62.035; 1/16/18
starter; 11 CSR 45-61.025; 1/16/18
starting gate; 11 CSR 45-62.140; 1/16/18
stewards; 11 CSR 45-60.025; 1/16/18
suspensions; 11 CSR 45-60.050; 1/16/18
termination; 11 CSR 45-14.040; 1/16/18
thoroughbred association officials; 11 CSR 45-61.015; 1/16/18 timer; 11 CSR 45-61.026; 1/16/18
totalisator breakdown; 11 CSR 45-80.120; 1/16/18
1/16/18

   Page 240
Index
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  totalisator employees; 11 CSR 45-80.240; 1/16/18
trifecta (triple) pool; 11 CSR 45-80.090; 1/16/18
trust funds; 11 CSR 45-62.080; 1/16/18
twin trifecta (double triple) pool; 11 CSR 45-80.091; 1/16/18 verification of payoffs; 11 CSR 45-80.200; 1/16/18
VTR equipment; 11 CSR 45-62.110; 1/16/18 waiver of requirements; 11 CSR 45-4.430; 1/16/18 win pool; 11 CSR 45-80.030; 1/16/18
HEALING ARTS, STATE BOARD OF REGISTRATION FOR
licensing by reciprocity–physical therapists; 20 CSR 2150-3.040; 1/16/18
physician assistant supervision agreements; 20 CSR 2150-7.135; 1/16/18
request for waiver; 20 CSR 2150-7.136; 1/16/18 waiver renewal; 20 CSR 2150-7.137; 1/16/18
HEALTH AND SENIOR SERVICES
community and public health, division of
good manufacturing practices; 19 CSR 20-1.040; 11/15/17
office of the director
complication plans for certain drug- and chemically-induced
abortions by physicians via hospitals; 19 CSR 10-
15.050; 12/1/17
complication report for post-abortion care; 19 CSR 10-15.020;
12/1/17
content and filing of tissue report; 19 CSR 10-15.030; 12/1/17 induced termination of pregnancy consent form; 19 CSR 10-
15.040; 12/1/17
reporting of healthcare-associated infection rates by hospitals,
ambulatory surgical centers, and abortion facilities;
19 CSR 10-33.050; 12/1/17
reporting patient abstract data by hospitals, ambulatory surgical
centers, and abortion facilities; 19 CSR 10-33.010;
12/1/17
report of induced termination of pregnancy; 19 CSR 10-15.010;
12/1/17 regulation and licensure
complication plans for certain drug- and chemically-induced abortions via abortion facilities; 19 CSR 30-30.061; 12/1/17
definitions and procedures for licensing abortion facilities; 19 CSR 30-30.050; 12/1/17
evaluation and assessment measures for Title XIX recipients and applicants in long-term care facilities; 19 CSR 30-81.030; 8/15/17, 1/16/18
physical standards for abortion facilities; 19 CSR 30-30.070; 12/1/17
reasons and methods the department can use to take adminis- trative licensure actions; 19 CSR 30-40.365; 9/15/17
standards for the operation of abortion facilities; 19 CSR 30- 30.060; 12/1/17
stroke center designation application and review; 19 CSR 30- 40.720; 9/15/17
HIGHER EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF
academic program approval; 6 CSR 10-4.010; 2/1/18
HIGHWAY PATROL, MISSOURI STATE
definitions; 11 CSR 50-2.010; 12/1/17
HIGHWAYS AND TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION, MISSOURI
administrative review of denial of eligibility or amount of relocation
assistance benefits; 7 CSR 10-4.010; 12/15/17 administrative review of notices to remove outdoor advertising and
to terminate nonconforming signs; 7 CSR 10-6.090;
10/16/17 administration
7 CSR 10-17.030; 11/15/17
7 CSR 10-27.040; 11/15/17
application process; 7 CSR 10-12.020; 11/15/17
causes for disqualification; 7 CSR 10-18.020; 11/15/17
cutting and trimming of vegetation on right-of-way; 7 CSR 10- 6.085; 10/16/17
description, organization, and information; 7 CSR 10-1.010; 11/15/17
definitions
7 CSR 10-17.020; 11/15/17 7 CSR 10-24.010; 1/16/18
directional and other official signs; 7 CSR 10-6.020 10/17/16 discussions; 7 CSR 10-24.330; 1/16/18
distribution of funds appropriated to the Missouri elderly and
handicapped transportation assistance program; 7 CSR 10-
7.010; 11/15/17
eligibility; 7 CSR 10-27.020; 11/15/17
general; 7 CSR 10-24.020; 1/16/18
information exchange, general; 7 CSR 10-24.300; 1/16/18 licensing of junkyards; 7 CSR 10-5.010; 10/16/17
location and relocation of private lines on state highways;
7 CSR 10-3.030; 12/15/17
location and relocation of utility facilities on state highways;
7 CSR 10-3.010; 12/15/17
logo signing; 7 CSR 10-17.050; 11/15/17
general program requirements; 7 CSR 10-19.010; 1/17/17 nomination review process; 7 CSR 10-12.030; 11/15/17 nonconforming signs; 7 CSR 10-6.060; 10/16/17
on-premises signs; 7 CSR 10-6.030; 10/16/17
organizational conflicts of interest; 7 CSR 10-24.080; 1/16/18 outdoor advertising beyond six hundred sixty feet (660’) of the right-
of-way; 7 CSR 10-6.050; 10/16/17
outdoor advertising in zoned and unzoned commercial and
industrial areas; 7 CSR 10-6.040; 10/16/17
past performance; 7 CSR 10-24.120; 1/16/18
permits for outdoor advertising; 7 CSR 10-6.070; 10/16/17 procedures for solicitations and receipt of proposals; 7 CSR 10-
24.030; 1/16/18
process to review, rate, and score proposals; 7 CSR 10-24.210;
1/16/18
proposal evaluation factors; 7 CSR 10-24.200; 1/16/18 relocation assistance program; 7 CSR 10-4.020; 12/15/17 removal of outdoor advertising without compensation; 7 CSR
10-6.080; 10/16/17
removal or concealment of outdoor advertising pending judicial
review; 7 CSR 10-6.100; 10/16/17
risk allocation; 7 CSR 10-24.070; 1/16/18
requirements for tourist oriented directional signing; 7 CSR 10-
17.040; 11/15/17
scenic byways; 7 CSR 10-12.010; 11/15/17
selection procedures and award criteria; 7 CSR 10-24.100; 1/16/18 solicitation procedures for competitive proposals; 7 CSR 10-24.110;
1/16/18
stipends; 7 CSR 10-24.060; 1/16/18
tradeoffs in design-build contracting; 7 CSR 10-24.140; 1/16/18 traffic generators; 7 CSR 10-17.060; 11/15/17
types of projects in which design-build contracting may be used;
7 CSR 10-24.050; 1/16/18
utility relocation hearings; 7 CSR 10-3.020; 12/15/17
INSURANCE
applied behavior analysis maximum benefit; 20 CSR; 3/1/17 construction claims binding arbitration cap; 20 CSR; 12/15/17 non-economic damages in medical malpractice cap; 20 CSR;
2/16/16
sovereign immunity limits; 20 CSR; 12/15/17 state legal expense fund; 20 CSR; 12/15/17
LABOR AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS, DEPARTMENT OF
appeal hearings and procedures; 8 CSR 10-5.015; 1/2/18
LAND SURVEY
accuracy standards for property boundary surveys; 10 CSR 30- 2.040; 11/1/17
application of standards; 10 CSR 30-2.010; 11/1/17 approved monumentation; 10 CSR 30-2.060; 11/1/17

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 241
  definitions; 10 CSR 30-2.020; 11/1/17
detail requirements for condominium surveys; 10 CSR 30-2.100;
11/1/17
detail requirements for original surveys; 10 CSR 30-2.080; 11/1/17 detail requirements for resurveys; 10 CSR 30-2.070; 11/1/17
detail requirements for subdivision surveys; 10 CSR 30-2.090;
11/1/17
general land surveying requirements; 10 CSR 30-2.030; 11/1/17 general organization; 10 CSR 30-1.010; 11/1/17
location of improvements and easements; 10 CSR 30-2.110; 11/1/17 use of Missouri Coordinate System, 1983; 10 CSR 30-2.050;
11/1/17
LOTTERY, STATE
all employees to be fingerprinted; 12 CSR 40-15.010; 2/1/18 assignment or transfer of license prohibited; 12 CSR 40-40.070;
2/1/18
cancellation of or failure to enter draw game tickets; 12 CSR 40-
85.090; 2/1/18
certain employees prohibited from participating in lottery operation;
12 CSR 40-40.100; 2/1/18
change of information; 12 CSR 40-40.150; 2/1/18
change of location or of business organization for draw game
retailer; 12 CSR 40-85.100; 2/1/18
commission to meet quarterly; 12 CSR 40-10.040; 2/1/18 compliance; 12 CSR 40-80.110; 2/1/18
decision of the director; 12 CSR 40-70.080; 2/1/18 definitions; 12 CSR 40-10.010; 2/1/18
definitions for all draw games; 12 CSR 40-85.005; 2/1/18 definitions for all scratchers games; 12 CSR 40-80.010; 2/1/18 designation of specifics for each scratchers game; 12 CSR 40-
90.110; 2/1/18 disputes
12 CSR 40-80.100; 2/1/18
12 CSR 40-85.070; 2/1/18
draw games contract provisions; 12 CSR 40-85.010; 2/1/18 draw games ticket validation requirements; 12 CSR 40-85.030;
2/1/18
electronic funds transfer system (EFT); 12 CSR 40-20.020; 2/1/18 further limitations on draw games prizes; 12 CSR 40-85.060;
2/1/18
game sell-out prohibited; 12 CSR 40-85.170; 2/1/18
incapacity of licensee; 12 CSR 40-40.220; 2/1/18
issuance and length of licenses; 12 CSR 40-40.015; 2/1/18 licensees to authorize electronic funds transfer (EFT); 12 CSR 40-
20.010; 2/1/18
limitation on awarding instant prizes; 12 CSR 40-80.030; 2/1/18 manner of selecting winning scratchers tickets–publication and
retention; 12 CSR 40-80.020; 2/1/18
minority businesses; 12 CSR 40-40.030; 2/1/18
notification of lost, damaged or stolen tickets or equipment; 12
CSR 40-40.180; 2/1/18
payments of prizes up to $600 authorized; 12 CSR 40-85.080;
2/1/18
player agreement; 12 CSR 40-50.060; 2/1/18
prize amounts for parimutuel draw games; 12 CSR 40-85.050;
2/1/18
redemption of winning tickets–licensee and player responsibility
and disputes; 12 CSR 40-50.030; 2/1/18 requirements for annuity sellers; 12 CSR 40-60.040; 2/1/18 requirements for companies providing insurance for annuity
contracts; 12 CSR 40-60.050; 2/1/18
retailer compensation; 12 CSR 40-40.260; 2/1/18
retailer conduct; 12 CSR 40-80.130; 2/1/18
retailer contract provisions; 12 CSR 40-40.280; 2/1/18
sale during normal business hours; 12 CSR 40-40.170; 2/1/18 scratchers validation requirements; 12 CSR 40-80.050; 2/1/18 special event licenses; 12 CSR 40-40.250; 2/1/18
suspension and revocation of licenses–when effective immediately;
12 CSR 40-40.120; 2/1/18
tickets and prizes; 12 CSR 40-50.010; 2/1/18 ticket responsibility; 12 CSR 40-80.090; 2/1/18
ticket transactions in excess of $5,000; 12 CSR 40-40.270; 2/1/18 when action effective immediately; 12 CSR 40-70.050; 2/1/18 written notice of revocation, suspension or denial required; 12 CSR
40-40.130; 2/1/18
MENTAL HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF
residential rate setting; 9 CSR 45-4.010; 12/1/17
MISSOURI CONSOLIDATED HEALTH CARE PLAN
public entity membership
benefit package option; 22 CSR 10-3.135; 12/1/17 pharmacy benefit summary; 22 CSR 10-3.090; 12/1/17
state membership
benefit package option; 22 CSR 10-2.135; 12/1/17 contributions; 22 CSR 10-2.030; 12/1/17
partnership incentive provisions and limitations; 22 CSR 10-
2.120; 10/2/17
pharmacy employer group waiver plan for medicare primary
members; 22 CSR 10-2.089; 12/1/17
tobacco-free incentive provisions and limitations; 22 CSR 10-
2.094; 10/2/17
MO HEALTHNET
enhancement pools; 13 CSR 70-10.150; 12/15/17
federal reimbursement allowance (FRA); 13 CSR 70-15.110;
8/1/17, 12/1/17
global per diem adjustments to nursing facility and HIV nursing
facility reimbursement rates; 13 CSR 70-10.016; 9/1/17,
12/15/17
inpatient hospital services reimbursement plan; outpatient hospital
services reimbursement methodology; 13 CSR 70-15.010;
8/1/17, 12/1/17
medicaid primary and prenatal care clinic program; 13 CSR 70-
96.010; 12/15/17
mental health residential personal care program; 13 CSR 70-
91.020; 12/15/17
procedures for evaluation of appropriate inpatient hospital
admissions and continued days of stay; 13 CSR 70-
15.090; 12/15/17
prospective reimbursement plan for nonstate-operated facilities for
ICF/IID services; 13 CSR 70-10.030; 10/2/17, 1/16/18 sanctions for false or fraudulent claims for MO HealthNet
services; 13 CSR 70-3.030; 11/1/17
MOTOR VEHICLE
administrative hearing held pursuant to section 301.119, RSMo; 12 CSR 10-23.150; 2/1/18
documents accepted as a release of lien; 12 CSR 10-23.458; 2/1/18 electric personal assistive mobility device (EPAMD); 12 CSR 10-
23.454; 2/1/18
issuance of title to a surviving spouse or unmarried minor children
of a decedent; 12 CSR 10-23.335; 2/1/18
internet renewal of license plates; 12 CSR 10-23.452; 2/1/18 junking certificates for motor vehicles; 12 CSR 10-23.355; 2/1/18 legal name on title application; 12 CSR 10-23.130; 2/1/18
legal sale of motor vehicle or trailer; 12 CSR 10-23.230; 2/1/18 marine application for title; 12 CSR 10-23.456; 2/1/18
motorized bicycles; 12 CSR 10-23.315; 2/1/18
motor vehicle financial responsibility
failure to produce insurance identification card–other types of proof acceptable; 12 CSR 10-25.080; 2/1/18
filing a report of an accident with the director of revenue; 12 CSR 10-25.050; 2/1/18
insurance identification cards; 12 CSR 10-25.060; 2/1/18
power of attorney; 12 CSR 10-25.070; 2/1/18
motor vehicle title services; 12 CSR 10-23.140; 2/1/18 registration and classification of commercial motor vehicles;
12 CSR 10-23.250; 2/1/18
registration of motorcycles or motortricycles; 12 CSR 10-23.330;
2/1/18

   Page 242
Index
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  registration of a motor vehicle or trailer subject to a lease with a right to purchase clause; 12 CSR 10-23.432; 2/1/18
statements of non-interest; 12 CSR 10-23.265; 2/1/18
transfer of passenger vehicle license plates from one horsepower
category to another-waiver of additional registration fees
and lack of refund provision; 12 CSR 10-23.325; 2/1/18 use of a reassignment of ownership by registered dealer form;
12 CSR 10-23.434; 2/1/18
use of local commercial motor vehicle license plates for farm or
farming transportation operations; 12 CSR 10-23.300; 2/1/18
NATURAL RESOURCES, DEPARTMENT OF
application and eligibility for funds; 10 CSR 70-7.110; 2/1/18 application and eligibility for SALT cost-share funds; 10 CSR 70-
8.020; 2/1/18
application and eligibility for SALT loan interest-share funds;
10 CSR 70-8.080; 2/1/18
application to all wells; 10 CSR 23-1.020; 2/1/18
availability and apportionment of funds; 10 CSR 70-7.100; 2/1/18 availability and apportionment of SALT loan interest-share funds;
10 CSR 70-8.070; 2/1/18
certified solid waste technician; 10 CSR 80-2.060; 2/1/18 commission administration of the SALT cost-share program; 10 CSR
70-8.060; 2/1/18
commission administration of the SALT program and apportionment
of SALT funds; 10 CSR 70-8.010; 2/1/18 definitions; 10 CSR 24-2.010; 2/1/18
definitions–grants; 10 CSR 90-3.050; 2/1/18
design, layout and construction of proposed practices and projects;
operation and maintenance; 10 CSR 70-7.120; 2/1/18 design, layout and construction of proposed water quality practices
and projects; operation and maintenance for SALT loan
interest-share; 10 CSR 70-8.090; 2/1/18
design, layout and construction of SALT proposed practices; opera-
tion and maintenance; 10 CSR 70-8.030; 2/1/18 development of grant priorities; 10 CSR 90-3.060; 2/1/18
district administration of the loan interest-share program; 10 CSR 70-
7.140; 2/1/18
district administration of the SALT cost-share program; 10 CSR 70-
8.050; 2/1/18
district administration of the SALT loan interest-share program;
10 CSR 70-8.110; 2/1/18 emergency action; 10 CSR 22-4.010; 2/1/18 general organization
10 CSR 22-1.010; 2/1/18 10 CSR 80-1.010; 2/1/18 10 CSR 90-1.010; 2/1/18
immunity of officers; 10 CSR 22-1.030; 2/1/18
initial distribution system evaluation; 10 CSR 60-4.092; 2/1/18 issuing permit renewals; 10 CSR 22-2.060; 2/1/18
loan interest-share application; eligibility of costs; and reimbursement
procedures; 10 CSR 70-7.130; 2/1/18
maximum microbiological contaminant levels and monitoring
requirements; 10 CSR 60-4.020; 2/1/18
minority and underrepresented scholarship program; 10 CSR 1-2.030;
2/1/18
notification procedures for hazardous substance emergencies and for
emergency notification of releases of hazardous substances and extremely hazardous substances; 10 CSR 24-3.010; 2/1/18
organization
10 CSR 50-1.010; 2/1/18 10 CSR 70-1.010; 2/1/18
organized group center; 10 CSR 90-2.060; 2/1/18
procedures for open selection of historic preservation fund grant
projects; 10 CSR 90-3.070; 2/1/18
procedures for the awarding of historic preservation fund grants;
10 CSR 90-3.080; 2/1/18
process and commission administration of the loan interest-share
program; 10 CSR 70-7.150; 2/1/18
process and commission administration of the SALT loan interest- share program; 10 CSR 70-8.120; 2/1/18
public drinking water program–description of organization and meth- ods of operation; 10 CSR 60-1.010; 2/1/18
public water supply–notification to division; 10 CSR 23-3.025; 2/1/18
SALT cost-share rates and reimbursement procedures; 10 CSR 70- 8.040; 2/1/18
SALT loan interest-share application; eligibility of costs; and reimbursement procedures; 10 CSR 70-8.100; 2/1/18
scrap tire end-user facility registrations; 10 CSR 80-8.060; 2/1/18 special monitoring for unregulated chemicals; 10 CSR 60-4.110;
2/1/18
solid waste management fund-financial assistance for waste reduction
and recycling projects; 10 CSR 80-9.040; 2/1/18 suspension of permits; 10 CSR 80-2.050; 2/1/18
target recycled content newsprint; 10 CSR 80-10.040; 2/1/18 violation history; 10 CSR 80-2.070; 2/1/18
NURSING, STATE BOARD OF
board composition; 20 CSR 2200-1.020; 12/15/17 confidentiality; 20 CSR 2200-4.028; 11/15/17
definitions 20 CSR 2200-4.025; 11/15/17
general organization; 20 CSR 2200-1.010; 12/15/17 membership and organization; 20 CSR 2200-4.026; 11/15/17 MNIT administrator; 20 CSR 2200-4.029; 11/15/17
MNIT board of directors/contractor duties; 20 CSR 2200-4.027; 11/15/17
nurse licensure compact; 20 CSR 2200-4.022; 11/15/17 requirements for intravenous therapy administration certification; 20
CSR 2200-6.060; 9/15/17, 1/2/18
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY, MISSOURI BOARD OF
continuing competency requirements; 20 CSR 2205-5.010; 12/15/17
PEACE OFFICER STANDARDS AND TRAINING PROGRAM
minimum standards for continuing education training; 11 CSR 75- 15.020; 7/17/17, 11/1/17
PHARMACY, STATE BOARD OF
administration by medical prescription order; 20 CSR 2220-6.040; 1/16/18
electronic prescriptions and medication orders; 20 CSR 2220- 2.085; 1/16/18
general fees; 20 CSR 2220-4.010; 5/1/17, 8/15/17
nonresident pharmacies; 20 CSR 2220-2.025; 11/15/17
standards of operation for a Class J: shared services pharmacy; 20
CSR 2220-2.650; 9/1/17, 12/15/17
PROPANE SAFETY COMMISSION, MISSOURI
fiscal year July 1, 2016–June 30, 2017 budget plan; 2 CSR 90; 8/15/17
PUBLIC SAFETY, DEPARTMENT OF
appeals procedure and time limits for victims of crime act grant applications; 11 CSR 30-16.020; 2/1/17
approval; 11 CSR 30-3.010; 11/15/16
eligibility criteria and application procedures for VOCA grants pro-
gram; 11 CSR 30-16.010; 2/1/17
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
administration and enforcement
4 CSR 240-120.031; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 4 CSR 240-121.020; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 4 CSR 240-123.020; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 4 CSR 240-124.020; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
anchoring standards; 4 CSR 240-124.045; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
approval of manufacturing programs; 4 CSR 240-123.040; 8/15/17,
2/1/18
code; 4 CSR 240-120.100; 8/15/17, 2/1/18

  February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  Missouri Register
Page 243
  code for modular units; 4 CSR 240-123.080; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 commission approval of manufactured home tie-down systems;
4 CSR 240-124.040; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
commission reports; 4 CSR 240-120.080; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 complaints; 4 CSR 240-124.060; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
complaints and review of director action; 4 CSR 240-121.060;
8/15/17, 2/1/18
complaints and review of manager action(s); 4 CSR 240-120.110;
8/15/17, 2/1/18
complaints and review of manager’s action(s); 4 CSR 240-123.090;
8/15/17, 2/1/18
consumer recovery fund; 4 CSR 240-126.020; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 criteria for good moral character for registration of manufactured
home dealers; 4 CSR 240-120.120; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 definitions
4 CSR 240-120.011; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 4 CSR 240-121.010; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 4 CSR 240-123.010; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 4 CSR 240-124.010; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 4 CSR 240-125.010; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 4 CSR 240-126.010; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 4 CSR 240-127.010; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
determination of applicable manufactured home systems standards; 4 CSR 240-124.030; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
dispute resolution; 4 CSR 240-125.090; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
general provisions; 4 CSR 240-125.020; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
electric utility demand-side programs filing and submission require-
ments; 4 CSR 240-3.164; 9/1/17, 1/2/18
electric utility demand-side programs investment mechanisms filing
and submission requirements; 4 CSR 240-3.163; 9/1/17,
1/2/18
inspection and approval of alterations; 4 CSR 240-120.090;
8/15/17, 2/1/18
inspection of manufacturer’s books, records, inventory and premis-
es; 4 CSR 240-123.050; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
inspection of dealer books, records, inventory and premises; 4 CSR
240-121.040; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
inspection of dealer’s books, records, inventory and premises;
4 CSR 240-123.060; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
inspection of manufactured homes rented, leased or sold or offered
for rent, lease, or sale by persons other than dealers;
4 CSR 240-121.050; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
inspections; 4 CSR 240-120.060; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
installation decals; 4 CSR 240-125.070; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 licensing; 4 CSR 240-125.060; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
limited use installer license; 4 CSR 240-125.050; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 manufactured home dealer setup responsibilities; 4 CSR 240-
120.065; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
manufactured home installer license; 4 CSR 125.040; 8/15/17,
2/1/18
manufacturers and dealer reports; 4 CSR 240-120.070; 8/15/17,
2/1/18
modular unit dealer or selling agent setup responsibilities; 4 CSR
240-123.065; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
monthly report requirement for registered manufactured home
dealers
4 CSR 240-120.130; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
4 CSR 240-121.180; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 monthly report requirement for registered modular unit dealers;
4 CSR 240-123.070; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
new manufactured home manufacturer’s inspection fee; 4 CSR 120-
140; 8/15/17, 2/1/18 re-inspection and re-inspection fee
4 CSR 240-120.085; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
4 CSR 240-123.095; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
safety standards for electrical corporations, telecommunications
4 CSR 240-121.030; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
4 CSR 240-123.030; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
small utility rate case procedure; 4 CSR 240-3.050; 11/15/17 staff assisted rate case procedure; 4 CSR 240-10.075; 11/15/17 standards; 4 CSR 240-124.50; 8/15/17, 2/1/18
REAL ESTATE APPRAISERS
appraisal management company application requirements; 20 CSR 2245-10.010; 12/15/17
appraisal management company standards of practice; 20 CSR 2245-10.020; 12/15/17
appraiser’s assignment log; 20 CSR 2245-2.050; 12/15/17 general; 20 CSR 2245-6.010; 1/2/18
renewal; 20 CSR 2245-10.030; 12/15/17
RETIREMENT SYSTEMS
definitions; 16 CSR 50-2.010; 11/1/17
eligibility and participation; 16 CSR 50-2.030; 11/1/17 public school retirement system of Missouri, the
service retirement
16 CSR 10-5.010; 10/16/17, 2/1/18 16 CSR 10-6.060; 10/16/17, 2/1/18
SOCIAL WORKERS, STATE COMMITTEE FOR
application for licensure as a social worker; 20 CSR 2263-2.050; 11/1/17
client relationships; 20 CSR 2263-3.040; 11/1/17 continuing education; 20 CSR 2263-2.082; 11/1/17 licensure by reciprocity; 20 CSR 2263-2.060; 11/1/17 provisional licenses; 20 CSR 2263-2.045; 9/15/17, 1/2/18 reexamination; 20 CSR 2263-2.051; 11/1/17
restoration of license; 20 CSR 2263-2.085; 11/1/17
TAX
annual adjusted rate of interest; 12 CSR 10-41.010; 12/1/17 State Tax Commission
agricultural land productive values; 12 CSR 30-4.010; 2/1/18 appraisal evidence; 12 CSR 30-3.065; 1/2/18
collateral extoppel; 12 CSR 30-3.025; 1/2/18
exchange of exhibits, prefiled direct testimony and objections;
12 CSR 30-3.060; 1/2/18
hearing and disposition of appeals; 12 CSR 30-3.080; 1/2/18 mediation of appeals; 12 CSR 30-3.085; 1/2/18
prehearing procedures; 12 CSR 30-3.070; 1/2/18
procedure: motions and stipulations; 12 CSR 30-3.050; 1/2/18 subpoenas and discovery; 12 CSR 30-3.040; 1/2/18
utility property to be assessed locally and by the State Tax
Commission; 12 CSR 30-2.015; 1/2/18
TRANSPORTATION, DEPARTMENT OF
motor carrier and railroad safety
accidents and hazards, compliance with Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) notification; 7 CSR 265-9.150;
11/15/17
applicability of chapter; definitions; 7 CSR 265-9.010;
11/15/17
dedicated rail fixed guideway telephone; 7 CSR 265-9.140;
11/15/17
drug and alcohol testing; 7 CSR 265-9.060; 11/15/17
hours of service; 7 CSR 265-9.070; 11/15/17
rail-highway grade crossing construction and maintenance; 7
CSR 265-9.100; 11/15/17
rail-highway grade crossing warning devices; 7 CSR 265-
9.110; 11/15/17
safety reviews shall be in accordance with Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) standards; 7 CSR 265-9.040;
11/15/17
signs; 7 CSR 265-9.050; 11/15/17
seals
companies, and rural electric cooperatives; 4 CSR 240- 18.010; 9/1/17, 1/2/18

   Page 244
Index
February 1, 2018 Vol. 43, No. 3
  state safety oversight agency authorities and requirements; 7 CSR 265-9.020; 11/15/17
visual obstructions at public grade crossings; 7 CSR 265- 9.130; 11/15/17
walkways; 7 CSR 265-9.090; 11/15/17 traffic and highway safety division
approval procedure; 7 CSR 60-2.020; 11/15/16
breath alcohol ignition interlock device security; 7 CSR 60-
2.050; 11/15/16
definitions; 7 CSR 60-2.010; 11/15/16
responsibilities of authorized service providers; 7 CSR 60-
2.040; 11/15/16
standards and specifications; 7 CSR 60-2.030; 11/15/16 suspension or revocation of approval of a device; 7 CSR 60-
2.060; 1/15/16

 To Subscribe to the Missouri Register
 SALUS POPULI SUPREMA LEX ESTO “The welfare of the people shall be the supreme law.”
John R. Ashcroft Secretary of State
MISSOURI REGISTER
 Contact us at: phone: (573) 751-4015 or email: rules@sos.mo.gov
 ORDER FORM
Enclosed is my check for $56 as payment in advance for one year of the Missouri Register
Please start my subscription with the _________________________________________issue.
Please make checks payable to: Secretary of State or alternatively call us to charge your credit card.
 Mail to: John R. Ashcroft Secretary of State
Administrative Rules Division PO Box 1767
Jefferson City, MO 65102
Name or Firm (Please Type or Print) Address
Attn:
   City
State
Zip Code
 
 John R. Ashcroft
Secretary of State
PO Box 1767
Jefferson City, MO 65102
 Periodical Postage Paid at Jefferson City, MO
 Administrative Rules Contact Information
Curtis W. Treat, Editor-in-Chief
(573) 751-2022 curtis.treat@sos.mo.gov
Vonne Kilbourn, Editor
(573) 751-1818 vonne.kilbourn@sos.mo.gov
Jacqueline D. White, Publication Specialist
(573) 526-1259 jacqueline.white@sos.mo.gov
Amanda McKay, Managing Editor
(573) 522-2593 amanda.mckay@sos.mo.gov
Marty Spann, Associate Editor
(573) 522-2196 martha.spann@sos.mo.gov
Alisha Dudenhoeffer, Administrative Aide
(573) 751-4015 alisha.dudenhoeffer@sos.mo.gov
General Inquiries
(573) 751-4015 rules@sos.mo.gov
2/1/18
   